FACULTY OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY
Institutional Vision & Mission
VISION
Providing world class quality education with strong ethical values to nurture and develop outstanding professionals fit for globally competitive environment.

MISSION

Provide quality technical education with a sound footing on basic engineering principles, technical and managerial skills, and innovative research capabilities.
Transform the students into outstanding professionals and technocrats with strong ethical values capable of creating, developing and managing global engineering enterprises.
Develop a Global Knowledge Hub, striving continuously in pursuit of excellence in Education, Research, Entrepreneurship and Technological services to the Industry and Society.
Inculcate the importance and methodology of life-long learning to move forward with updated knowledge to face the challenges of tomorrow.
With the objective and a dynamic vision to support contemporary Engineering, the Faculty of Engineering and Technology (FEAT) was established in the year 1945, as the Second Engineering College of the then composite Madras State. The FEAT proudly celebrated its Golden Jubilee in the year 1996 and Diamond Jubilee in the year 2005. The FEAT has eleven departments of study namely Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Civil & Structural Engineering, Computer Science & Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering, Information Technology, Mechanical Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering  and Pharmacy.

Programmes Offered

B.E Programmes
Sl.No.	Code	Branch	
Accreditation Status
Valid upto
1	AM	Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning)	
2	CF	Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science)	
3	CH	Chemical Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2025
4	CE	Civil Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2025
5	CZ	Civil and Structural Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2022
6	CS	Computer Science and Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2025
7	EE	Electrical and Electronics Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2025
8	EC	Electronics and Communication Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2022
9	EI	Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering	
10	IT	Information Technology	
11	ME	Mechanical Engineering	
NBA Accredited
30.06.2025
12	MM	Mechanical Engineering (Manufacturing)	
Note : Admission to the First Year programmes has been included in the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission (TNEA). .


Diploma in Mining Engineering Programme
Faculty of Engineering and Technology, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu is offering Diploma in Mining Engineering Programme in association with M/S NLCIL, Neyveli, Tamilnadu, India.

An MOU was signed between M/S NLCIL and Annamalai University to offer the Diploma in Mining Engineering Programme. As a part of NLCIL’s corporate social responsibility, NLCIL has agreed to sponsor the infrastructure facilities for three year regular Diploma in Mining Engineering programme under the name and style of NLCIL–AU Diploma in Mining Engineering programme at Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Annamalai University has agreed to allocate 50% of the total seats to the NLCIL and the other 50% will be filled by the University as per the norms prevailing from time to time.

NLCIL sponsors 50 percent of tuition fees to the project affected students (PAP) to enhance the life style of the project affected persons (given their land to NLCIL) living around Neyveli.

Hostel Facilities
                Separate hostel facilities are available for boys and girls.
Activities in FEAT

Academic programmes leading to the award of Bachelor, Master, and Doctoral degrees along with Diploma and Certificate Programmes in selected fields.
Research programmes for Students, Faculty, and Professionals.
Special programmes, conferences, seminars, short term programmes, and consultancy services.
Collaborative research programmes in coordination with government /non-governmental organizations.
Extension services
Important MoUs 
The Faculty of Engineering has entered into MoU with:

Tennesee Technological University, (TTU), USA to enable academic exchange of the staff and students between Annamalai University and TTU under the Indo-US, Knowledge Initiative Award from University Grants Commission, New Delhi
Ball State University of USA.
Fukui University of Japan to enable the academic exchange of the Staff and Students between Annamalai University and the Fukui University.
University of Technology, Sydney, Australia, for promotion of technical collaborations.
Kumamoto University, Japan for Collaboration in the area of “Materials Processing using Explosives” to promote academic exchanges.
National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science & Technology, (NIIST) Trivandrum, Kerala for Collaborative research in ‘Light Alloys’
CSIR - Structural Engineering Research Centre (SERC), Chennai for Collaborative Research in the field of Structural Engineering
NLC India Limited, Neyveli for offering Diploma in Mining Engineering Program.
Training and Placement Cell 
Salient features of the activities of Training & Placement Cell, Faculty of Engineering and Technology, Annamalai University are:

Organizing Pre-Placement Trainings
Providing Placement Assistance through Campus Drives with Industries of Repute
Enhancing Employability through Upskilling Programs
Arranging Internships in industries
Conducting career guidance sessions about avenues open after graduation
Preparing the students for various Competitive Exams
Every year, the campus placements are conducted by inviting the companies through campus drives. An average of 70- 80 percent of the eligible students have got placements both in Core and IT sectors through campus drives.
Some of our Recruiters are:
L & T
Tech Mahindra
Schneider Electric
Wheels India
IBM
Azentio
HCL Technologies
TCS
JSW
SPIC
Super Auto Forge
Delphi TVS
Cetex Petrochemicals
Sai Life Sciences
Apollo Pharmacy
Episource
Axis Global Automation
ATOS Global IT Solutions
E-parambara
Tagros Chemicals Pvt. Ltd.
TAC