ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608 002
(Accredited with ‘A’ Grade by NAAC)

REGULATIONS FOR
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
R2020

DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH
Annamalainagar 608 002

CONTENTS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.

Particulars
Chapter I Act Provisions
Chapter II Regulations for Doctor of Philosophy – 2020
1.0 Preamble
2.0 General Eligibility
3.0 Faculties / Departments offering Ph.D. Programmes
4.0 Educational Qualification
5.0 Ph.D. Programme
6.0 Mode of Selection
6.6 Department Research Committee
7.0 Admission
8.0 Tuition Fees & Other Fees
9.0 Supervisor Recognition
10.0 Number of Scholars
11.0 Duration of the Programme
12.0 Extension of Duration
13.0 Research Advisory Committee (RAC)
14.0 Programme Structure (Course Work)
15.0 Research Outside the University
16.0 Monitoring the Progress of the Scholars
17.0 Submission of Synopsis
18.0 Submission of Thesis
19.0 Thesis Evaluation
20.0 Public Viva-Voce Examination
21.0 Award of Ph.D. Degree
22.0 Cancellation of Registration
23.0 Publication of the Thesis
24.0 The Act of Plagiarism
25.0 Repository of the Thesis
26.0 Ethical & Legal Requirements
27.0 Research Ethics
28.0 Research Misconduct
29.0 Investigation of Research Misconduct
Chapter III Transitory Provisions
30.0 Amendments to the Ordinance
31.0 Interpretation of the Ordinance
Annexures 1 to 35
Guidelines for the Preparation of the Synopsis and Thesis

Page No.
01
01
02
02
03
04
05
09
09
10
11
11
13
13
14
14
16
18
19
19
21
23
25
26
27
28
28
29
29
31
33
34
35
35
35
37-81
82-104

ANNAMALAI

UNIVERSITY

(Accredited with ‘A’ Grade by NAAC)
Annamalainagar – 608 002
CHAPTER I
ACT PROVISIONS
In accordance with the provisions of Section 31(b) of the Annamalai
University Act 2013, the following Annamalai University Ordinance
Governing the Award of the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy is prepared
with the approval of the Syndicate.
CHAPTERII
REGULATIONS FOR DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY – 2020
DEFINITIONS AND NOMENCLATURE
In the Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires
i. “University” means Annamalai University, Annamalainagar 608002.
ii. “Departmental Research Committee” means the Committee duly
constituted by the Vice-Chancellor of the University for Effective
Coordination of the research activities of the department.
iii. “Programme” means Doctoral Programme leading to the award of
Ph.D. degree in Arts / Science/Marine Sciences / Indian Languages
/ Engineering & Technology / Education / Fine Arts /Agriculture
/Medicine including Nursing / Dentistry.
iv. “Supervisor” means any faculty member of the University who has
been recognized by the University to guide the research scholars.
v. “Co-supervisor” means a recognized supervisor to guide the
scholars in interdisciplinary research that requires more than one
expert to guide the research scholars, and to guide part-time
(external) candidates who are working in institutions where PG/UG
departments are not available.
vi. “Head of the Department” means Head of the Department of the
supervisor.
vii. “Place of Research” for the scholars shall be the Department where
the supervisor is working.
viii. “Research Advisory Committee” means a committee constituted by
the Vice-Chancellor for each Scholar, to monitor the progress of
his/her research work.

1

ix. “Research scholar” means any candidate admitted by the University
either under Full time, Part time (Internal) and Part Time (External)
category pursuing research for the award of Ph.D. degree of the
University.
x. “Course Work” means theory course(s)(subject(s))/practical
course/theory cum practical course that is/are prescribed by the
Research Advisory Committee for the scholar to undergo as a part
of the programme requirement.
xi. “Grade Point” means the total marks in percentage divided by ten
and rounded off to two decimal points.
xii. “Credit Point” means the grade point multiplied by the
corresponding credit hours.
xiii. “Grade Point average (GPA)” means the total credit points secured
in a semester divided by the total credit hours registered in a
semester.
xiv. “Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) or Overall Grade Point
Average (OGPA)” means the total credit points secured by a
research scholar for all the semesters divided by the total credit
hours of the courses registered and rounded off to two decimals.
xv. “Publication” means full length research articles reporting new
research findings in respective fields which comprise presentations
on new concepts, the development of innovative methods that
include figures, tables and references; the results of which have a
general impact and contribute to the advancement of the particular
field, and are always peer reviewed.
1.0. PREAMBLE
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) is the Highest Academic Degree which
requires in-depth study and extensive intellectual effort. The Doctor
of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Degree is awarded to a candidate who, as per
these regulations, has submitted a thesis on the basis of original
research either in any particular subject/discipline or involving
more than one discipline(inter-disciplinary) that makes a
contribution to the advancement of knowledge, which is approved
by Board of Examiners as required. The Ph.D. Regulations-2020 of
Annamalai University from the admission to the award of “Degree of
Doctor of Philosophy” is based on the UGC (Minimum Standards
and Procedure for award of Ph.D. Degree) Regulations dated 5th
May 2016 and subsequent amendments made during 2018.
2.0. GENERAL ELIGIBILITY
2.1. Master’s Degree from UGC recognized University or any other
qualification recognized as equivalent thereto in the fields of study
notified from time to time by the University. Specific educational
qualifications are given in Clause 4.
2

2.2.

A minimum of 55% marks or CGPA 5.50 on a 10 point scale in the
qualifying examination for Faculties of Arts, Science, Marine
Sciences, Indian Languages, Engineering & Technology, Education,
Fine Arts and Nursing, Food & Nutrition (Faculty of Medicine). In
the case of SC/ST/OBC (Non-creamy layer)/Differently-abled
candidates, 50% marks or CGPA of 5.0 on a 10 point scale in the
Master’s degree.
2.3. A minimum of 50% of marks in the qualifying examination for
Faculties of Medicine and Dentistry (MD/MS/MDS/M.P.T).
2.4. A minimum of OGPA or CGPA 7.00 on a 10 point scale in the
qualifying examination for Faculty of Agriculture.
2.5. Candidates who have passed Master’s Degree through Open
University system are not eligible. However, candidates who have
secured their Master’s Degree under11+1+3+2 (or) 10+2+3+2 (or)
10+2+4+2 (or) 10+3+3+2(or) 11+1+4+2(or) 10+2+5 pattern of
programmes of study are eligible.
3.0. FACULTIES/DEPARTMENTS OFFERING Ph.D. PROGRAMMES
The following faculties offer research programmes leading to the award of
Ph.D. Degree:
Faculty

Ph.D. Programmes

Arts

English, History, Political Science, Public Administration,
Economics,
Sociology,
Social
Work,
Commerce,
Population Studies, Business Administration, Rural
Development, Library & Information Science, Philosophy,
Law.

Science

Mathematics, Statistics, Physics, Chemistry, Botany,
Plant Biology & Plant Biotechnology, Zoology,
Environmental
Biotechnology,
Bioinformatics,
Microbiology, Geology, Applied Geology, Geoinformatics,
Biochemistry,
Biotechnology,
Computer
Science,
Computer Applications, Sports Biochemistry, Sports
Biomechanics, Exercise Physiology, Sports Nutrition,
Sports Psychology, Strength & Conditioning.

Marine
Sciences

Marine Biotechnology, Marine Microbiology, Marine Food
Technology, Marine Biology & Oceanography, Coastal
Aquaculture, Ocean Science & Technology.

Indian
Languages

Tamil, Hindi, Linguistics.

Engineering &
Technology

Chemical, Chemical Engineering - Biotechnology,
Chemical Engineering - Food Technology, Chemical
3

Faculty

Ph.D. Programmes
Engineering - Industrial Safety, Civil, Civil & Structural,
Computer Science & Engineering, Electrical &
Electronics, Electronics & Communication, Electronics &
Instrumentation, Information Technology, Mechanical,
Manufacturing, Pharmacy.

Education

Education, Psychology, Physical Education, Yoga.

Fine Arts

Music

Agriculture

Agronomy, Agricultural Entomology, Plant Pathology,
Agricultural Microbiology, Soil Science & Agricultural
Chemistry, Genetics & Plant Breeding, Seed Science &
Technology,
Agricultural
Molecular
Biology,
Horticulture, Agricultural Economics, Agricultural
Business Management, Agricultural Extension, Animal
Husbandry.

Medicine

Physiology, Biochemistry, Pharmacology, Pathology,
Microbiology, Community Medicine, General Medicine,
Paediatrics, DVL, Psychiatry, General Surgery, ENT,
Ophthalmology, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Orthopaedics,
Radio-Diagnosis, Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation,
Anaesthesiology, Cardiology, Nursing, Food &Nutrition.

Dentistry

Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology and Oral Microbiology,
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Periodontology, Paediatric
Dentistry, Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopaedics,
Prosthodontics and Crown & Bridge, Conservative
Dentistry & Endodontics, Oral Medicine and Radiology.

4.0.

EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION

S.No.
1

Programme
Ph.D. Degree in Arts
Ph.D.Degree in
Management

Qualification for Admission
M.A./M.Com. in the relevant branch
of Arts
MBA/PG Diploma in Business
Management or Administration
awarded by Indian Institute of
Management(IIM)

4

2

Ph.D. Degree in Science

M.Sc./M.C.A in the relevant branch
of Science

3

Ph.D. Degree in Marine
Sciences

M.Sc. in the relevant branch of
Marine Sciences/Science

4

Ph.D. Degree in Indian
Languages

M.A. in the relevant branch of
languages

5

Ph.D. Degree in
Engineering and
Technology

M.E./M.Tech. in the relevant branch
of Engineering and Technology

6

Ph.D. Degree in
Education

PG degree with M.Ed. in the relevant
branch of Education / M.P.E.S.or
M.P.Ed./M.Sc. (Psy.)/M.Sc. (Yoga)

7

Ph.D. Degree in Fine
Arts

M.A./M.F.A/M.P.A. in Music / Dance

8

Ph.D. Degree in
Agriculture/Horticulture

M.Sc. in the relevant branch of
Agriculture / Horticulture

9

Ph.D. Degree in
Medicine

M.D/M.S/M.Sc. Nursing,Food
&Nutrition/M.P.T. in the relevant
branch of Medicine

10

Ph.D. Degree in
Dentistry

M.D.S in the relevant branch of
Dentistry

5.0.

Ph.D. PROGRAMME
Ph.D. Programme is available in the following three categories:
a) Full-time
b) Part-time – Internal
c) Part-time – External

Candidates who satisfy the eligibility criteria as in Clauses 2.0&4.0 are
eligible to apply for Ph.D. Programme.

5

5.1. Full-Time Ph.D. Programme
5.1.1. Candidates under Full-time mode shall do research work in the
University campus only. The Full-time Ph.D. scholars shall report
daily in the department at least during the office hours of the
University and they should sign every day in the attendance register
at the respective place of research.
5.1.2. Project staff/fellow working in a sponsored project which has at
least three/two years tenure from Govt. of India/ Industries/Govt.
of Tamil Nadu can also register under full time mode.
5.1.3. Candidates in employment, who want to pursue Full-time study,
should be sponsored by their employer and should avail leave for
the minimum duration of the programme and should be formally
relieved from their duty to join the research programme.
5.1.4. Candidates who are selected under the National level Fellowship
programmes or by any recognized bodies and who satisfy the
eligibility conditions as per the regulations shall apply for Full-time
category in the respective discipline.
5.1.5. Admission of Foreign Students to Ph.D. Programme
Foreign students who are selected under various scholarship
schemes, either by the Ministry of Education and Culture or by the
Ministry of External Affairs, will be given admission as Full-time
scholar on the recommendation/sponsorship of the respective
Ministry of Government of India. The other foreign students who
seek admission for Full-time should possess a Research VISA
issued by the Indian Embassies abroad and produce a “No
Objection Certificate” from the Ministry of Education, Government
of India, after clearance from the Ministry of External Affairs. They
should also show proof for financial capability for staying/pursuing
Ph.D. Programme for 3 years.
5.2.

Part-Time(Internal)

5.2.1. Research Scholars under this category are those who are presently
employed on regular basis in this University at the time of applying
for the Ph.D. programme.
5.2.2. Those who have joined as Assistant Professors with
M.Phil./M.E./M.Tech./M.Pharm./M.Sc.(Agri.)/ M.Sc. (Hort) /
M.D./ M.S./ M.D.S./ M.P.T./ M.Sc. (Nursing)/ M.Sc. (Food &
Nutrition) are permitted to register for Ph.D. Programme after one
year from the date of joining in the post.

6

5.2.3. Faculty members who do not have an M.Phil. Degree shall be allowed
to register for the Ph.D. Programme after two years from the date of
joining in the post, provided they fulfil the eligibility conditions as
given in clause 2.0 for registration as Part-time candidates.
5.2.4. The Regular Non-Teaching Staff shall be allowed to register for
Ph.D. Programme after five years from the date of joining in the
post, provided they fulfil the eligibility conditions for registration as
Part-time candidates.
5.2.5. The normal work of teaching/ non-teaching staff shall not be
affected at any cost, if they are selected for the Ph.D. programme.
Their selection for the Ph.D. Programme is subject to the final
discretion of the Vice-Chancellor. Further, those who acquired Ph.D.
(teaching & non-teaching) cannot claim promotion/ change of
designation/change of cadre.
5.2.6. The in-service candidates who register for Ph.D. programme onparttime basis in the Faculties of Medicine and Dentistry shall execute a
bond to serve in the University for a minimum period of three years
after the award of the Ph.D. Degree.
5.2.7. Staff members of Annamalai University who apply for Ph.D.
programme should submit no objection certificate from the employer
along with application form.
5.3.

Part-Time (External)

5.3.1. The University reserves full rights for admitting candidates under
part-time external category.
5.3.2. The part-time candidate shall register under a research supervisor
who is a full time teaching faculty of this University.
5.3.3. The Part-time candidate should be employed as Assistant
Professor/Associate
Professor/Professor
in
a
recognized
College/University where facilities for carrying out research work
are available. Further, such candidates should possess minimum
qualifications for applying for Ph.D. programme. The Institution
where the candidate is employed should have postgraduate
Department in Science, Marine Sciences, Engineering &
Technology/ Medical/Nursing/ Physiotherapy/Dental subjects, and
Undergraduate Departments for Arts, Fine Arts, Education and
Indian Languages. The Faculty of Agriculture is not offering Parttime (External) Ph.D. Progamme.

7

5.3.4. Librarians and Physical Directors working in Colleges/Universities
who fulfil the eligibility condition scan apply for Ph.D. programme
with a suitable supervisor in Annamalai University and they do not
require a co-supervisor. The candidates shall undergo the regular
procedure for admission to Ph.D. programme.
5.3.5. Research Scientists or similar cadre in private or Government
Institutions/Industrial Units with Research and Development
facilities are also eligible to apply for part-time Ph.D. programme
with a supervisor from Annamalai University.
5.3.6. All eligible candidates as in 5.3.3. but not having PG/UG
departments shall have a recognized co-supervisor. The
co-supervisor may be from a College/Institution located from the
same or nearby town of the candidate.
5.3.7. The co-supervisor should apply for supervisor recognition provided
they possess eligible qualifications. Generally facilities for research
should be made available at the place of work of the external
candidate. In case where such facilities do not exist, the research
facility at the place of work of co-supervisor should be made
available to the candidate. Otherwise the facilities available in
Annamalai University in the respective Faculties shall be extended
to the candidates.
5.3.8. Part-time external scholars should sign in the attendance register
at least one month per academic year (a spell of at least five days
minimum) in the respective department of Annamalai University.
5.3.9. The following certificates should be attached along with the
application for Ph.D. admission
i. No Objection Certificate from the employer (Annexure-1).
ii. Acceptance letter from the co-supervisor (Annexure-2), if
applicable.
5.4.

Change of Category

Provision exists for change of category from full-time to part-time and
vice-versa provided the residency and attendance requirements are
satisfied. The change of category shall be approved by the
Vice-Chancellor only once during the tenure, subject to written request
letter along with submission of necessary documents with the
recommendation of the supervisor, Head of the department, Dean of the
concerned faculty and the scholar. Change of category more than once
may be considered only under extraordinary circumstances, if deemed fit.
Change of category is permitted only for the scholars who had completed
the confirmation of provisional registration. In case of change from fulltime to part-time or vice-versa, minimum period shall be accounted as
whichever is high. If the request is approved, official communication shall
be issued to the effect (Annexure-3).
8

6.0.

MODE OF SELECTION

6.1.

University shall issue notification for Ph.D. admission twice every
year, one in the month of June and another in the month of
December.

6.2.

The candidates desirous of registering for Ph.D. Programme under
any one of the above categories shall apply by filling all the relevant
details mentioned in the online application form posted in the
University website and submit the completed application online and
send the hard copy of the application along with all enclosures to
the Director, DARE before the due date as indicated in the
notification issued from time to time.

6.3.

Incomplete applications and applications with false information in
any respect shall be summarily rejected without any intimation to
the candidate.

6.4.

The Directorate of Academic Research (DARE) shall screen the
applications as per the eligibility norms and the Directorate shall
conduct the written test only for eligible candidates. Candidates
appearing for the written test should obtain minimum marks as
specified by the University to qualify for the interview process.

6.5.

The admission of Ph.D. students shall be based on the following
criteria besides General Eligibility:

6.6.

(i)

An entrance test at Post-Graduate level for 70 marks [70
multiple choice questions (MCQs), each question carrying one
mark and the duration of the test is 90 minutes] followed by
an interview that will have a weightage of 30 marks.

(ii)

The candidates who secure 50% marks in entrance test and
interview put together are eligible for admission.

(iii)

A relaxation of 5% marks (from 50% to 45%) shall be allowed
for the candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy
layer)/Differently abled category.

(iv)

Candidates with M.Phil. Degree from an approved University,
UGC-JRF/NET/SLET/GATE/CSIR/ICHR/ICPR/ICSSR
qualified candidates and teacher fellowship holders are
exempted from the Entrance test but they have to appear for
the interview.

Departmental Research Committee
The following is the constitution of the Departmental Research
Committee (hereafter referred to as DRC). The members other than
Head of the department and the coordinator of DDE shall serve only
for one academic year.

9

Designation

Members

The Head of the Department

Convener

The respective Coordinator of DDE, if exists

Member

Two Professors/Senior Faculty members nominated
Members
by the Vice-Chancellor (in rotation)

6.7.

One Associate Professor (in rotation)

Member

One Assistant Professor (in rotation)

Member

The DRC has the following functions:
 Selection of candidates for admission to the Ph.D. programme.
 Allotment of Research Supervisors to students enrolled for the
Ph.D. programme.
 Facilitating research facilities in the department.
 Framing the syllabus for course work.
 Maintenance of research quality and quality of publications.
 Sorting out any other research related issue of the department.

6.8.

If there is any dispute either in the constitution or functioning of
the DRC, it shall be brought to the notice of the Director-DARE and
the decision of the Vice-Chancellor shall be final.

6.9.

The minutes of the DRC together with the list of candidates and
their research supervisors along with recommendations of the Dean
of
the
respective
faculty
will
be
placed
before
the
Vice-Chancellor for approval.

7.0.
7.1.

ADMISSION
The selected candidates shall be issued admission cards and they
will be admitted to Ph.D. programme in the respective department
based on his/her PG qualification. The candidates should join
before the last date mentioned in the selection order by paying the
prescribed fees, failing which they will forfeit the seats.
The provisional registration order (Annexure-4) for Ph.D., shall be
issued either in January or July of the year in which the candidate
is admitted.
The scholar, supervisor, co-supervisor, Research Advisory
Committee (RAC) members and examiners shall not be relatives to
one another.

7.2.

7.3.

10

8.0.
8.1.

8.2.

8.3.
8.4.

9.0.
9.1.

9.2.

9.3.
9.4.

9.5.

TUITION FEES & OTHER FEES
The selected candidates shall pay the prescribed fees before the last
date mentioned in the selection order, failing which they will forfeit
the seats.
The yearly fees shall be paid by the scholars within the prescribed
date till the scholars submit the thesis. Late payment of fees will
attract fine as per the university norms. The supervisors should
monitor the regular payment of yearly fees by those scholars who
are working under them.
The registration is liable for cancellation if the research scholar has
not paid the yearly fees within the stipulated time.
Non-payment of yearly fees is a serious lapse on the part of
scholars. Explanation for non-payment of yearly fees shall be called
for from the supervisors (Annexure-5).
SUPERVISOR RECOGNITION
The applicant for supervisor recognition should possess Ph.D.
degree from UGC recognized university in the relevant area of
research in which he/she has carried out research.
The applicant should have published a minimum of FIVE
publications in SCI/SSCI/UGC listed journals which is mandatory
for supervisor recognition.
The eligible candidates can apply in the prescribed application
(Annexure-6) for supervisor recognition.
The regular full-time teaching faculty members after completing one
year of service in the University are eligible to apply for
supervisorship.
The supervisorship will be awarded in the same faculty in which
his/her Ph.D. Degree was awarded.

9.6.

Faculty of Medicine: M.D./M.S. qualified faculties who have
minimum of 10 years of postgraduate teaching experience and
published 6 research articles in an indexed journal (PubMed/Web
of Science) at the National/International level as first author or
co-author are eligible to apply for supervisor recognition.

9.7.

Faculty of Dentistry:
i. Faculty members possessing Ph.D. qualification having minimum
of 5 years of postgraduate teaching experience and published 3
research articles in an indexed journal (PubMed/Web of Science)
at the National/International level as first author or co-author
are eligible to apply for supervisor recognition.
ii. Faculty members possessing M.D.S. qualification having a
minimum of 10 years of postgraduate teaching experience and
11

published 6 research articles in an indexed journal
(PubMed/Web of Science) at the National/International level as
first author or co-author are eligible to apply for supervisor
recognition.
9.8. Supervisor recognition orders (Annexure-7) shall be issued officially
only to eligible applicants as mentioned above.
9.9. A research supervisor will be permitted to register candidates till
two years prior to his/her retirement. Research scholars will be
permitted to continue to work and submit their thesis under the
guidance of a retired person only for a maximum period of one year
from the date of retirement. If the candidate is unable to submit
his/ her thesis within this time, the Head of the department
concerned will suggest a research supervisor in consultation with
the Research Advisory Committee and Dean.
9.10. A research supervisor is normally eligible to guide only in his/her
basic subject/discipline. However, he/she may be permitted to
guide in a related subject in which he/she has at least two
publications in professionally recognized national/international
journals, or authored a book, after getting approval of the expert in
the concerned discipline nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. If there
is any dispute in this regard, the decision of the Vice-Chancellor
shall be final.
9.11. A research supervisor shall not be allowed to register a candidate
for Ph.D. if the candidate is a blood relative to the supervisor.
9.12. A faculty member who accepts an administrative position such as
Controller of Examinations, Registrar or Vice-Chancellor shall not
function as a research supervisor. However, he/she may be
allowed to complete the theses of candidates registered with
him/her and after that he/she cannot register fresh candidates.
9.13.

The Vice-Chancellor shall be empowered to summarily withdraw
the research supervisorship on the following grounds:





9.14.

Moral turpitude/Sexual harassment
Plagiarism
Fraudulent academic claims
Any act prejudicial to the reputation of the University without
assigning any reason thereof.

Change of Supervisor:
Change of research supervisor shall not be permitted as a routine.
In exceptional cases, such change may be permitted, if valid
reasons are provided by the candidate. The committee headed by
the Vice-Chancellor shall look into the request of the petitioner, if
12

there is any conflict between the scholar and the research
supervisor. The research supervisor under whom the scholar has
originally registered shall give a “No Objection Certificate” and the
new proposed research supervisor should give a “Certificate of
Willingness” to guide the candidate. However, the Vice-Chancellor,
on the recommendation of the Department Research Committee,
has the right to assign a new research supervisor to the research
scholar, and change of supervisor order (Annexure-8) shall be
issued officially by Director, DARE.
9.14.1. When the change of research supervisor is approved, the candidate
shall work for a minimum of one year with the new research
supervisor before submitting the synopsis provided he/she fulfils
the attendance requirements. However, based on the merit of the
request of the scholar, the decision of the Vice-Chancellor is final.
9.14.2. The research supervisor who wishes to avail leave/lien/deputation
beyond a period of SIX MONTHS shall propose a co-supervisor in
the concerned subject for the candidates registered with him/her,
and the fact may be intimated to the University well in advance.
The final approval of the proposal rests with the Vice-Chancellor.
10.0. NUMBER OF SCHOLARS
10.1. A Professor who is a recognized supervisor shall guide only a
maximum of 8 Ph.D. scholars as supervisor/co-supervisor at any
time. An Associate Professor who is a recognized supervisor shall
guide only a maximum of 6 Ph.D. scholars as supervisor/cosupervisor and an Assistant Professor who is a recognized
supervisor shall guide only a maximum of 4 Ph.D. scholars as
supervisor/co-supervisor at any time.
11.0. DURATION OF THE PROGRAMME
11.1. The duration of the programme and the time for submission of
thesis are counted from the date of provisional registration.
11.2. The minimum duration of the programme is three years for those
who join after completing Master’s degree and two years for those
with M.Phil. degree for Full-time scholars. For part-time scholars,
the minimum duration is four years for those who join after
completing Master’s degree and three years for those with
M.Phil.Degree.
11.3. The minimum duration of the programme is three years for fulltime
and
four
years
for
part-time
for
M.E./M.Tech./M.Sc.(Agri)/M.Sc.(Hort.)/M.D./M.S./M.D.S. /
M.Sc.(Nursing) / M.Sc. (Food & Nutrition) /PGDegree for other
allied medical sciences candidates.
13

11.4. The Director, DARE shall permit if deemed fit for reasons, break of
study for the scholar under extraordinary circumstances such as
medical grounds and other compelling reasons which warrant
his/her absence from the programme. However, the break of study
period shall not be counted for the minimum duration of the
programme.
11.5. Break of study shall be granted upto a maximum period of one
year. Such request shall be made in writing by the scholar with the
recommendation of the supervisor, Head of the Department and
Dean of the Faculty, and it should reach the Director, DARE prior
to availing the break of study. The orders for break of study shall be
issued by the Director after assessing the need (Annexure-9). If
prior permission is not sought and obtained, it will be considered as
a case of discontinuation and action will be taken to cancel the
registration of such scholars. Break of study period will be counted
for the maximum duration of the programme(Clause 10.6). The
scholar should remit the yearly fees during the break of study
period also.
11.6 The maximum duration of the programme shall be six years for
full-time and part-time scholars of all the Faculties.
11.7 Women candidates (who availed maternity leave) and persons with
disability (more than 40% disability) are allowed a relaxation of two
years. Thus, the maximum duration for such scholars shall be eight
years.
12.0. EXTENSION OF DURATION
12.1. Scholars who do not submit the thesis within the maximum
duration of the programme(six years) shall apply for extension of
time three months prior to the completion of six years in the
prescribed format (Annexure-10) with the recommendation of
Supervisor, Head of the Department and Dean of the Faculty. In
such cases a maximum grace period of one year, beyond the normal
maximum period of six years shall be granted by the Director,
DARE with the approval of Vice-Chancellor (Annexure-11).
12.2. If the scholar fails to submit the thesis within seven years from the
date of joining the programme, the registration shall be cancelled
without any further notice.
13.0. RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE (RAC)
13.1. There shall be a Research Advisory Committee (RAC) for every
scholar to monitor the progress of research work.

14

13.2. The Research Advisory Committee (RAC) shall consist of the Head of
the Department as Chairperson, the research supervisor as the
convener, co-supervisor if applicable and two experts in the field of
research of the scholars.
13.3. For the selection of two experts for RAC, the research supervisor
should suggest three names within the department and another
three names from other departments, who have some expertise in
the area of research of the scholar. The Vice-Chancellor will select
one expert from the department of the scholar and the other expert
from any other department.
13.4. The Research Advisory Committee will meet once in six months.
13.5. The first RAC meeting shall be convened within two months from
the receipt of provisional registration orders. The research topic and
the courses to be undertaken by the scholar shall be decided in the
meeting and the minutes of the first RAC meeting in the prescribed
format(Annexure-12) should be forwarded to the Director, DARE.
13.6. The other RAC meetings shall be convened periodically during the
second week of July and December every year to review the
research
progress
of
the
Scholars
and
to
offer
suggestions/modifications.
13.7. The Research
functions:

Advisory

Committee

shall

have

the

following

i) Advice and recommend on all matters connected with the
candidate’s research from admission till the submission of the
thesis.
ii) Approve the topic of research.
iii) Scrutinize the research proposal submitted by the candidate.
iv) Recommend the course(s) that the candidate has to undergo.
v) Assess and approve the progress reports of Ph.D. scholars in
the prescribed format and report on the fitness or otherwise of
the candidate to proceed with his/her research work.
vi) If necessary, recommend and approve change of title of thesis,
change of supervisor and change of status of researcher (full
time to part time and vice-versa).
vii) Review and endorse the research progress of the candidate
periodically.
viii) Supervise the presentation by the candidate of the final draft
of his/her proposed thesis for approval before the submission
of synopsis of the thesis to the Director, DARE and sign a
certificate to this effect to be submitted along with the
synopsis.
ix) Assess the conduct/validity of experiments/field work, peruse
laboratory observation notebooks, data recording and analysis
and publications.
15

x) Assess the quality and
submission of synopsis.

quantum

of

research

work

for

xi) Verify the two mandatory publications in SCI/ SSCI/UGC listed
journals to permit the scholar to submit the synopsis.
xii) Approve the synopsis of the thesis.
xiii) Approve the panel of Foreign and Indian Examiners.
xiv) Finalize and approve the title of the thesis.
xv) Monitor the corrections carried out, if any pointed out by the
thesis evaluation examiners.
13.8. The convener will convene the Research Advisory Committee
meetings with intimation to the Director, Directorate of Academic
Research (DARE).
14.0. PROGRAMME STRUCTURE (Course Work)
14.1. All research scholars (full-time and part-time) shall undergo a
minimum of three/four courses of six credits each as stipulated by
the UGC. The course work shall include a course on research
methodology which is mandatory. The other courses may involve
advanced topics, latest developments in the chosen field of research,
and courses related to the research problem.
14.2. While the minimum number of courses is three/four, there can be a
great degree of flexibility in the number of courses that a research
scholar can undertake based on the discipline and the area of
research.
14.3. Scholars who opted for interdisciplinary research can take an
additional course work relevant to the topic as prescribed by the
RAC.
14.4. Candidates already holding M.Phil. Degree and admitted to the
Ph.D. programme in the same area of M.Phil. research, may be
exempted from Ph.D. course work. All other M.Phil. candidates
admitted to the Ph.D. programme shall undergo Ph.D. course work
as prescribed by the RAC/Ph.D. regulation.
14.5. A course on “Research and Publication Ethics” (RPE) is compulsory
for all Ph.D. scholars, besides other courses as prescribed by RAC.
14.6. The total marks for each course in the final examination will be 100.
The candidate shall secure minimum 50% in the course work
examination, failing which he/she has to reappear for the same
course work examination in the next semester. If a candidate does
not pass the course work examination in three appearances, his/her
registration will be cancelled.

16

14.7. The research scholars shall be required to complete the course work
within a period of eighteen months from the date of provisional
registration in order to pursue further with their research work. For
those who fail to complete the course work within the stipulated
time, the RAC may recommend an extension of six months, if the
RAC is convinced of their performance. If not, the RAC may
recommend the cancellation of Ph.D. registration.
14.8.

A scholar is deemed to have cleared the course(s) only if he/she
has more than 80% attendance, appeared for the examination
and secured a minimum of 50% marks in the course(s).

14.9.

The performance of a scholar in each course is evaluated in terms
of percentage of marks with a provision for conversion to Grade
Point (GP). The sum total performance in each semester will be
rated by Grade Point Average (GPA), while the continuous
performance will be rated by Cumulative/Overall Grade Point
Average (CGPA/OGPA).

14.10. Faculty of Agriculture
(As per Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) norms)
14.10.1 A student enrolled for Doctoral program in the departments of
Faculty of Agriculture shall be eligible for the degree, provided
he/she has completed 75 credits including 45 credits of research
as detailed below.
Details

Credit Hours

I.

Major Courses

15

II.

Minor Courses

8

III.

Supporting Courses

5

IV.

Seminar

2

V.

Research

45

Total

75

14.10.2 A full time Ph.D. scholar can register for a maximum of 15
credits excluding research in a semester. However, the research
credits registered should not exceed 12 per semester. Semester
wise distribution of credits is given in the respective Ph.D.
programme. The total research credits for Part-time (Internal)
should be distributed in all the eight semesters. The Ph.D.
scholars [full-time/part-time (Internal)] should complete their
course work within two semesters in the first year.
14.10.3 Requirements for Ph.D. programme shall also include successful
completion of research in the major field of study and submission
of thesis thereon.
17

14.11.

14.12.

Confirmation of provisional registration:
After the successful completion of course work(s) and
comprehensive examination, the RAC meeting shall be convened
to verify the course work completion, and assess the progress of
research work. Upon satisfaction with the performance, the RAC
recommends the confirmation of provisional registration in the
prescribed format (Annexure-13) as minutes of RAC along with
check list for confirmation of Ph.D. scholar registration
(Annexure-14).
The scholar shall be issued confirmation of provisional
registration (Annexure-15) by the Director, DARE upon
completion of all the courses prescribed by RAC in its first
meeting and satisfactory progress in research. The provisional
registration shall be cancelled (Annexure-16) for those scholars
who do not fulfil the requirements within two years from the date
of provisional registration.

15.0.

RESEARCH OUTSIDE THE UNIVERSITY

15.1.

The research scholar shall be permitted to carry out his/her
research in an institution or National Laboratory or R&D centre
outside the university for a maximum period of one year only
after the confirmation of the provisional registration. Such
request from the scholar shall be approved by the Director,
DARE, only if the request of the scholar has been recommended
by the supervisor and forwarded by the Head of the Department
and Dean of the Faculty of the supervisor.

15.2.

The scholars who carried out research outside the university
shall submit the synopsis only after a minimum period of two
months on his/her return. The papers published during such
period of outside assignment should be relevant to the area of
research and should carry the scholar’s supervisor name as one
of the authors.

15.3.

The scholars who obtain permission to work outside the
University for a specific period as in Clause 15.1, on return to the
University, should submit a certificate from the Organization
stating the period of work and a brief research report.

15.4. If the scholar continues to stay outside the university beyond the
approved period without prior permission, the registration of the
scholar shall stand cancelled automatically.

18

16.0. MONITORING THE PROGRESS OF THE SCHOLAR
16.1. The research scholars, both full-time and part-time, shall submit
Research Progress Reports in the prescribed format (Annexure-17)
duly endorsed by the Research Advisory Committee once in six
months to the Director, DARE until they submit their synopsis.
16.2. Failure to submit the progress reports periodically shall result in
the automatic cancellation of registration.
16.3. The minutes of the meeting of the Research Advisory Committee
along with enclosures will be sent to the Director, DARE.
16.4. The RAC meeting may also be conducted through video
conferencing or internet chat if the candidate or the Research
Supervisor is in a foreign country.
16.5. The pre-synopsis presentation before the RAC is a mandatory
requirement to assess the quality and quantum of research in
addition to the incorporation of the suggestions offered by RAC
members.
16.6. The presentation shall be arranged before the submission of the
synopsis in the presence of RAC, faculty members, research
scholars, M.Phil. and P.G. students.
16.7. The participants may suggest new ideas/references/suggestions to
improve the work and so on.
16.8. A report on this event along with an attendance sheet
shall be forwarded by the research supervisor with the endorsement
of the RAC and HOD to the Director, DARE, during the submission
of synopsis.
17.0. SUBMISSION OF SYNOPSIS
17.1. The scholar shall be permitted to submit the synopsis 3 months
before the completion of minimum duration of the programme as
per
Clauses11.2
and
11.3,provided
the
scholar
has
published/accepted for publications two research articles in SCI/
SCI-E/ SSCI/UGC listed journals and recommended by RAC.
17.2. A certificate in the prescribed format (Annexure-19) signed by the
supervisor, co-supervisor, if applicable and Head of the Department
stating that the scholar has completed the minimum duration of
the programme.
17.3. The Ph.D. scholars other than from the departments of Tamil, Hindi
and Music have to publish two research articles in Scopus/Web of
Science indexed Journals (either published or accepted for
19

publication), which are mandatory prior to the submission of their
synopsis; otherwise the synopsis shall not be accepted for
submission.
17.4. The Ph.D. scholars in the Departments of Tamil, Hindi and Music
have to publish two research articles in the UGC-CARE listed
Journals (either published or accepted for publication), which are
mandatory prior to the submission of their synopsis; otherwise the
synopsis shall not be accepted for submission.
17.5. The research scholar shall submit three copies of the synopsis
approved by the Research Advisory Committee along with a soft
copy to the Director, DARE through the research supervisor, HOD
and Dean of the respective Faculty. The guidelines for the
preparation of synopsis are given in Appendix I.
17.6. The RAC meeting should be conducted just before the submission
of synopsis to assess the quality and quantum of research, contents
of synopsis, verify the two publications and approve the panel of
Indian and foreign examiners. All these shall be presented as
minutes of RAC meeting while submitting the synopsis (Annexure-18)
along with certificate for submission of synopsis (Annexure-19),
attendance certificate for pre-synopsis presentation (Annexure-20),
proforma for submission of synopsis (Annuxure-21) and checklist
(Annexures-22).
17.7. The research supervisor shall mandatorily submit the panel of
examiners (Indian and Foreign) duly approved by RAC, along with
the synopsis through proper channel to the Director, DARE in the
prescribed format (Annexures-23& 24). A panel of ten examiners
(five from foreign countries and five from India) shall be provided by
the supervisor. The examiners shall be from reputed
Universities/Institutes/Organizations.
17.8. For Indian Languages such as Tamil, Linguistics (Tamil version),
Hindi and Fine Arts, the panel shall consist of five members within
Tamil Nadu and five members outside Tamil Nadu.
17.9.

The proposed Indian Examiners should hold a Ph.D. Degree with
not less than 10 years experience at the post-graduate level with
publications at national/international level journals in the same
or related research area of the thesis to their credit.

20

17.10. If the research scholar has carried out part of his/her work in
another institution, the panel should not include the names of the
Scientists/Professors with whom he/she has worked for a short
duration.
17.11. If the Vice-Chancellor observes that the panel of examiners is not
from reputed Institutions, he/she shall call for fresh panel or
suggest examiners (both Indian and Foreign) of his/her choice.
17.12. The Vice-Chancellor will select one Indian and one overseas
examiner from the panel and will also indicate the order of priority
of examiners from 1 to 5 from the panel of Indian and foreign
examiners submitted.
17.13. Once the Vice-Chancellor has approved the panel of examiners
and assigned the priority (order of preference), the Director, DARE
shall forward/dispatch the synopsis to the first examiner in both
the panels and seek their acceptance for evaluation of the thesis.
17.14. Once an examiner accepts the invitation and agrees to evaluate
the thesis, the Director, DARE shall arrange to send the thesis for
evaluation along with the associated formats, guidelines and
procedure for assessment. The covering letter of the Director,
DARE to examiners shall insist on the confidentiality of the
appointment, and request the examiners not to reveal the
appointment to the supervisor/scholar/anybody.
17.15. If any examiner declines to accept the invitation to evaluate the
thesis, the synopsis shall be sent to the next examiner in the list.
17.16. If there is no response from the examiner three weeks after
dispatching the synopsis, the Director, DARE shall send the
synopsis to the next examiner in the same order of priority in the
respective panel.
17.17. If the acceptance to evaluate the thesis is not received from the
first panel of examiners, the Director, CARE shall call for a fresh
panel from the research supervisor.
18.0. SUBMISSION OF THESIS
18.1. The thesis shall report, in an organised and scholarly fashion, an
account of original research work of the scholar leading to the
discovery of new facts or techniques or correlation of facts already
known (analytical, experimental, hardware oriented, etc.) and
demonstrate a quality contribution to the advancement of
21

knowledge as well as the scholar’s ability to undertake sustained
research.
18.2. The thesis shall be prepared in accordance with the prescribed
format and specification as given in Appendix II. Five hardcopies
of the thesis with soft copy in CD (PDF format) in each copy of
the thesis along with proforma for submission of thesis (Annexure25) and checklist (Annexure-26) shall be submitted after the
completion of the stipulated period to the Director, DARE.
18.3. The thesis shall include a declaration from the scholar, and a
certificate from the supervisor and co- supervisor (if applicable) as
prescribed, to the effect that the thesis is a record of original
research work carried out by the scholar and the work reported in
the thesis is not copied from other sources/not submitted
elsewhere for a degree or diploma.
18.4. The research papers shall be attached to the Ph.D. thesis.
18.5. The RAC shall certify the quality and authenticity of the
publications and ensure that both the candidate and the research
supervisor are listed as first and corresponding authors respectively
in the articles with the correct affiliations.
18.6. Fees shall be paid by the scholars every year during the notified
period till the submission of the thesis.
Any other fees as
applicable shall be paid as notified from time to time. In case, any
scholar has not paid the tuition fees and other notified fees, then
the processing of synopsis and thesis shall not be processed until
all the fees are paid. No dues certificate (Annexure-27) should be
submitted while submitting the thesis.
18.7. The thesis shall comply with the following conditions to merit the
award of Ph.D. degree:
i. It should be a piece of research work characterized either by
finding of new facts or by a fresh approach towards
interpretation of facts and theories.
ii. It should reflect the candidate’s capacity for critical
examination and judgment.
iii. It should be satisfactory in terms of presentation and adhering
to proper methodology of thesis writing.
18.8. The thesis shall not exceed 300 pages excluding the bibliography,
Appendices, etc. If it exceeds the specified number of pages, the
research supervisor should write to the Director, DARE with the
reasons and get prior approval from the Director, DARE. The
thesis should be in A4 size. The specifications for the preparation
of the thesis and a model cover page of the thesis are given in
Appendix II.
22

18.9.

The thesis shall be typed on both sides of the page in order to save
paper and postage.
18.10. The thesis shall contain a certificate from the supervisor specifying
that the thesis submitted is a record of research work done by the
candidate during the period of study under him/her, and that the
thesis has not previously formed the basis for the award of any
Degree, Diploma, Associateship, Fellowship or similar title. A
statement from the supervisor indicating the extent to which the
thesis represents independent work on the part of the candidate
should also be made including free from plagiarism.
18.11. The thesis shall also contain a declaration by the candidate that the
work reported in the thesis has been carried out by the candidate
himself/herself and that the material from other sources, if any, is
duly acknowledged and no part of the thesis is plagiarised.
18.12. The Ph.D. thesis in the field of Tamil, Linguistics, History and Fine
Arts may be submitted in Tamil Language, and for other language
subjects, the thesis must be in the respective language.
19.0. THESIS EVALUATION
19.1. The thesis shall be referred to two examiners (one from India and
another from abroad) nominated by the Vice-Chancellor from the
panel of examiners recommended by the RAC. The Vice-Chancellor
if deems it necessary may also nominate examiners from outside
the panel.
19.2. The examiners appointed shall evaluate the thesis and report on
the merit of the thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree. Each
examiner is expected to give a detailed report on the thesis, apart
from a duly filled in proforma for evaluation sent by the Director,
DARE.
19.3. The examiners shall be requested to send his/her report within 45
days from the date of receipt of the thesis to the Director, DARE.
The reports sent by e-mail shall be accepted provided the email ID
is the official email ID of the examiners.
19.4. If an examiner fails to send the report within the stipulated time,
the Director, DARE shall send a reminder to him/her immediately
after the expiry of the deadline and request him/her to send the
report within the next thirty days. If the concerned examiner does
not comply even after the extended period, the Director, DARE
shall cancel the appointment forthwith and invite the next
examiner from the approved panel to evaluate the thesis.
19.5. In the event of a request from the examiner(s) for more time for
evaluation or receipt of the report after the appointment has been
cancelled or postal delay or loss of report, etc.appropriate decision
23

will be taken based on the facts in consultation with the
Vice-Chancellor.
19.6.

The two examiners shall send the individual detailed reports along
with the duly filled in proforma to the Director, DARE. The Director
will forward the reports to the research supervisor of the scholar.

19.7.

The supervisor (convener) shall prepare a consolidated report,
bringing out the salient points made in the individual reports of
the examiners, and place the consolidated report and the
examiners’ reports before the RAC. After approval of the RAC
members, the minutes shall be forwarded to the Director, DARE.

19.8.

If both examiners unanimously recommend the award of the
degree, the candidate will be asked to appear for a public Viva-voce
examination.

19.9.

If both examiners give definite recommendation against the award
of the degree, the thesis will be rejected.

19.10. If one of the examiners recommends the thesis for the award of the
degree and the other examiner rejects the thesis, the thesis shall
be referred to a third examiner belonging to the same category
(i.e., Indian or foreign) for evaluation.
19.11. The third examiner will not be provided with the report of the
other two examiners. If the third examiner recommends the award
of the degree, the candidate will be asked to appear for a public
Viva-voce examination. If the third examiner also does not
recommend the award of the degree, the thesis will be rejected.
19.12. If the examiner(s) recommends suggestions /corrections/
modifications/alterations and does not insist on resubmission,
asking the candidate to carry out the corrections/modifications in
the thesis, then the candidate will be informed accordingly
through the research supervisor. The candidate shall carry out the
corrections suggested by the examiners. The supervisor shall
furnish a certificate (Annexure-28) stating that all corrections have
been carried out, which shall be endorsed by the RAC, HOD and
the Dean. The corrected thesis along with the certificate shall be
sent to the Director, DARE, before the Viva-voce examination.
19.13. If the examiner(s) recommends revision and resubmission, by one
or both the points of revision shall be indicated clearly in the
report(s). The necessary corrections shall be carried out by the
scholar and the revised version shall be submitted along with the
Minutes of RAC meeting for resubmission of thesis (Annexure-29)
to the Director, DARE, who will in turn send the corrected thesis
24

to the concerned examiner(s). If the examiner(s) is/are still not
satisfied with the revised version, the thesis will be sent to another
examiner. If the revision is accepted by the examiners, the Vivavoce examination will be conducted.
20.0. PUBLIC VIVA-VOCE EXAMINATION
20.1. The reports of the examiners shall be made available to the
convener (research supervisor) of the Viva-voce board, and the
co-research supervisor(if any). The reports shall be placed in the
RAC and obtain the approval for the conduct of Viva-voce
examination.
20.2. The Viva-voce Board (Annexure-30) shall consist of the research
supervisor, co-supervisor, if applicable, the Indian examiner
(External Examiner) who evaluated the thesis and the Head of the
Department (Internal Member). The research supervisor shall be
the convener of the Viva-voce Board. The research supervisor shall
consolidate the results of the Viva-voce Examination and
communicate to the Director, DARE.
20.3. If the Indian (External) Examiner, who evaluated the thesis, is
unable/unavailable to conduct the Viva-voce examination, one of
the examiners from the panel of Indian examiners submitted shall
be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor to conduct the Viva-voce
examination.
20.4. The Viva-voce examination shall be conducted within two months
from the date of receipt of the reports by the examiner. The
Viva-voce should not be conducted on Saturday, Sunday and public
holidays. The date of Viva-voce examination shall be finalized in
consultation with the external examiner and Head of the Department
at least 15 days prior to Viva-voce date and the same shall be
communicated to the Director, DARE. The circulars for vivavoce(Annexure-31)shall be communicated to the Director, DARE,
other departments, other Institutions, faculty members and research
scholars, at least two weeks prior to the viva-voce examinations. A
minimum of 25 members excluding the viva-voce board members
shall be present for the Viva-voce examination.
20.5. If the Head of the Department happens to be the research
supervisor, one of the senior faculty members in the department
shall be recommended by the Head of the Department as an
Internal Examiner and the same has to be forwarded to the Director,
DARE for approval.
20.6. A copy of the thesis will be kept in the Department Library for
perusal by those interested in the thesis for at least 15 days
preceding the conduct of the public Viva-voce examination.

25

20.7. The purpose of the Viva-voce examination is to test the
understanding of the scholar on the subject matter of the thesis
and the competence in the general field of study. The scholar shall
be asked to make a brief presentation before the audience and
answer the questions raised by the examiners and the audience.
20.8. The Viva-voce examination shall be held in all seriousness befitting
the solemnity of an examination and no attempt shall be made to
treat it as a mere formality. The candidate and the supervisor shall
not indulge in any action that may be perceived as influencing the
external examiner.
20.9. The minutes of Viva–voce shall contain a comprehensive report
including the performance of the candidate, the answers furnished by
the candidate to the questions raised by the Indian and Foreign
examiners in their reports, the Viva-voce board of examiners as well
as by the audience. The proceedings of Viva-voce (Annexure-32)
along with a list of participants with their signature, designation and
address (Annexure-33) and checklist (Annexure-34) should be
submitted to the Director, DARE immediately after the Viva-voce
examination (on the same day).
20.10. A candidate who is successful in the public Viva-voce Examination
shall be recommended for the award of the Ph.D. degree by the
Viva-voce Board of examiners.
20.11. If a candidate fails to defend his/her thesis satisfactorily in the
Viva-voce examination, the candidate may be permitted to
reappear for the Viva-voce after a period of three months.
20.12. The Viva-voce board shall recommend one of the following:
i. that the degree be awarded
ii. that
the
candidate
be
re-examined
in
a
second
Viva-voce examination. (This will be done after a period of 3
months).
iii. that the degree be not awarded and the thesis be rejected.
20.13. The consolidated recommendation will be placed before the
Syndicate for its approval from the date of Viva-voce examination
and the Degree for the approved candidates will be awarded in the
convocation in person or in absentia.
21.0. AWARD OF Ph.D. DEGREE
21.1.

After the thesis is approved by the Syndicate, prior to the actual
award of the degree in the Convocation, a certificate of completion
of Viva-voce (Annexure-35) and Provisional Certificate shall be
issued on written request from the scholar to the effect that the
Degree has been awarded in accordance to the provisions of UGC
Regulations, 2016.
26

21.2.

The Ph.D. Degree Certificate shall contain the name of the scholar,
photo of the scholar and also the title of the thesis along with the
name(s) of the Faculty/Faculties and discipline(s).Further, the
degree certificate shall also contain the statement “The degree is
awarded in compliance with the University Grants Commission
Regulations, 2016”.

21.3.

In the case of the award of the Ph.D. Degree for inter-disciplinary
research, the Degree Certificate shall bear the subject of the
candidate’s postgraduate degree and the discipline of the
department(s) in which the candidate has conducted his/her
doctoral research mentioning them as “inter-disciplinary.”

22.0. CANCELLATION OF REGISTRATION
22.1. The registration of a scholar who has not submitted his/her thesis
before the end of the maximum duration including the extension
period for the programme as in Clauses 11.1 and 11.2 shall stand
cancelled automatically.
22.2. The registration is liable for cancellation, if
i. The scholar has not paid the yearly fees within the stipulated
time.
ii. Two successive progress reports are not submitted or not
satisfactory.
iii. If the scholar fails to complete the confirmation of provisional
registration within two years from the date of registration for
the Ph.D. programme.
iv. Prior permission not obtained for break of study from the
Director, DARE.
v. Does not complete the course work(s) within the stipulated
time.
vi. If the scholar misbehaves in the University campus and acts
against the rules and regulations of the University.
vii. The scholar wishes to withdraw from the programme and
requests to cancel his/her registration.
viii. Extension of time (beyond six years) not obtained as in clause
11.2.
ix. Submission of thesis beyond three months from the date of
approval of synopsis by the RAC without prior permission.

27

x. Submission of revised thesis incorporating the suggestions of
any examiner beyond six months.
xi. The act of plagiarism involved in the research article/
synopsis/thesis.
xii. Communicating with the thesis examiners in any form by the
scholar/ supervisor/ co-supervisor, if applicable/anybody.
xiii. Any violation of the rules and regulations of Ph.D. programme.
23.0. PUBLICATION OF THE THESIS
23.1. The thesis, once submitted, becomes the property of the University.
23.2. In case the research comes under the “classified” category, it shall
not be published without prior approval of the Syndicate.
23.3. The Syndicate may grant permission for publishing the
results/findings based on a written request from the candidate
through the research supervisor.
23.4. In case the thesis does not fall under the “classified” category, the
research scholar may publish his/her thesis results after obtaining
necessary permission from the Vice-Chancellor.
23.5. Two copies of the thesis in its published form must be submitted to
the office of the Director, DARE.
24.0. THE ACT OF PLAGIARISM
24.1. In the case of scholars who have committed the act of plagiarism in
the Synopsis/Thesis/Journal Publication, he/she shall be called for
enquiry at the DARE and shall be advised to rectify the plagiarism
and resubmit the documents with appropriate penalty. If the
scholar fails to rectify the plagiarism in the documents, the
Thesis/Degree shall be forfeited and his/her research registration
shall be cancelled and also he/she shall be debarred to register for
any other programme in the University.
24.2. For the abetment of the above such action, the recognition of
his/her supervisor shall be withdrawn for a period of five years and
he/she shall be debarred from guiding the scholars for any
research programme in the University till the end of the period.
24.3. If any scholar has committed an act of self-plagiarism in the
publications and ascertained by the committee constituted by the
Vice-Chancellor, such work shall not be allowed in his/her thesis
and the scholar shall be fined upto Rs. 50,000/- with a warning to
28

the supervisor. The Synopsis/Thesis of such scholar shall be
accepted only based on a new publication in a refereed Journal (as
applicable). If plagiarism is detected in the Publication/Thesis of
any other scholar under the same supervisor, the recognition of
his/her Supervisorship shall be withdrawn for a period of five years
and he/she shall be debarred from guiding the scholars for any
research programme in the University till the period is over.
24.4. If a plagiarism is observed in the later stage at any point of time,
the Ph.D. Degree awarded to the scholar shall be withdrawn.
25.0. REPOSITORY OF THE THESIS
25.1.

Following the successful completion of the evaluation process and
before the announcement of the award of the Ph.D. Degree, the
Institution concerned shall upload the electronic version of Ph.D.
thesis to the Shodhganga - INFLIBNET, so as to make it accessible
to all Institutions/Colleges and one copy of the thesis should be
submitted to the department library and another copy of the
thesis should be submitted to the University General library.

26.0. ETHICAL & LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
26.1.

All research involving use of all data and material relating
tohuman subjects as well as laboratory animals must be approved
by the appropriate Ethical Committee constituted by the
University. In practice this means that no research in this line can
be undertaken until all the required approvals and authorisations
have been given from the Appropriate Ethical committees.

26.2.

It is the responsibility of the research supervisor and the research
scholar to obtain approval from the relevant committee before
initiating the research work.

26.3.

The research supervisors and scholars shall follow the regulations
stipulated by appropriate bodies for undertaking research.
Annamalai University has constituted Institutional Committees to
scrutinize and approve research proposals.

26.3.1. Institutional Psychology Research Ethics Committee (IPREC) for
research in Psychology and Institutional Humanities and Social
Sciences Research Committee (IHSSRC) for research in Arts,
Humanities and Social Sciences or cognate areas shall scrutinize
research proposals to ensure that the dignity, human rights,
health, safety and privacy of research participants are protected,
that valid consent has been obtained and that the information
gained by the research is not outweighed by any costs to the
29

subject in time, effort, discomfort or potential risk. These
Committees will also explore potential ethical issues that may
arise as a result of the proposed research work.
26.3.2. Institutional Technology Ethics Committee (ITEC) will address
ethical issues specific to new and emerging technologies in terms
of impact on the environment and human well-being.
26.4. Regulations for Studies on Plants: All research works carried out on
transgenic plants shall follow the guidelines laid down by the
Department of Biotechnology(http://dbtindia.nic.in/guidelines_98 .pdf).
26.5. Regulations for Field work: Permission for field work shall be
obtained from the Departments of Forests, Fisheries, National
Biodiversity Authority, Wildlife, etc., as appropriate.
26.6. Regulations for Studies on Laboratory Animals: The Institutional
Animal Ethics Committee (IAEC) shall examine proposals involving
research on laboratory animals.
a. The proposals shall be submitted to the IAEC for evaluation and
approval in the prescribed format http://envfor.nic.in/
division/committee-purpose-control-and-supervision-experimentsanimals-cpcsea-1#RF.
b. The conduct of animal studies shall follow the rules for Good
Laboratory Practice established by the Committee for the Purpose
of Control and Supervision on Experiments on Animals (CPCSEA)
under the guidance of an authorized Veterinarian.
c. Research scholars engaged in scientific experiments on animals
shall act in conformation with the provisions of the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and breeding of and experiments on
animals (Control and Supervision Rules, 1998 Act amended).
These provisions are enforced by the CPCSEA.
26.7. Regulations for Biosafety: Biosafety rules encompass manufacture,
import, export, and storage of micro-organisms, Genetically Modified
Organisms (GMOs), and Gene-technology products as supplemented
by the Biotechnology Safety Guidelines issued by the Department of
Biotechnology (DBT).
26.8. Regulations for Human Sampling: The Institutional Human Ethics
Committee (IHEC) will scrutinize the use of human volunteers and
clinical samples for research. Sampling of human tissue and
biological fluids shall conform to the Ethical guidelines for biomedical
research on human participants issued by the Indian Council of
Medical Research, New Delhi (http://www.icmr.nic.in/ethical.pdf)
(2006).

30

With the burgeoning biomedical and pharmaceutical industry, there
is a growing interest in obtaining human tissues for research,
validation and commercial purposes. Researchers must be aware of
the ethical and legal issues involved in using human tissues and
comply with the Human Tissue Act (2004) and consent must be
obtained.
26.9. Where research is conducted in collaboration with another
institution outside the University, the ethics policies of those
institutions should be appended to any proposal to be considered
by the Research Ethics Committee of the University, provided the
experiments are carried out in this University. If the experiments
are carried out in the collaborating institution, the procedure may
be reversed.
27.0. RESEARCH ETHICS
Annamalai University is committed to undertake research with
impeccable scientific integrity and in conformity with the accepted code
of conduct on Good Research Practices (GRP). GRP is concerned with
the organizational process and the conditions under which academic
research is planned, performed, monitored, recorded, archived and
reported. This requires appropriate training and supervision to ensure
the highest achievable standards for conducting research. All Research
Scholars and Supervisors shall follow these guidelines while planning
and executing research.
27.1. Scientific Integrity
All researchers shall maintain a very high degree of integrity with
respect to all aspects of research including application for funding,
designing
and
conducting
experiments,
analysing
data,
interpretation of results and publication of results.
27.2. Ethical and Legal Requirements
All researchers must be aware and comply with the ethical and
legal requirements relating to human participants, animals
disclosures of personal information, biological material transfer and
testing, and biodiversity protection before undertaking research. All
researchers are expected to follow the standard procedures for
conducting research laid down by relevant scientific and
professional bodies.
27.3. Conflict of Interest
A conflicting interest exists when professional judgement
concerning a primary interest such as scientific knowledge may be
influenced by a secondary interest such as financial gain, personal
advancement or personal rivalry. Conflicts of interests may
influence interpretation of results. Examples of potential conflicts of
31

interest include employment, consultancies, stock ownership,
honoraria, paid expert testimony, patent applications/registrations,
and grants or other funding. All conflicts of interest, perceived,
potential or actual, must be declared.
27.4. Safety
A researcher must be aware of the safety precautions and
potential hazards of materials and equipment, use, storage and
disposal of chemicals, how to deal with spills and accidents and
requirement for vaccinations when dealing with biological
samples. Equipment used to generate data should be calibrated
and serviced regularly to ensure optimal and reproducible
performance. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and easily
accessible instructions for safe shutdown in case of emergency
should be maintained for each equipment.
27.5. Economy
All researchers shall exercise the principle of economy in the use
of resources including infrastructure facilities, equipment and
consumables. Regular review meetings shall be conducted by the
Research Advisory Committee to assess the progress of research
and to decide stop further experiments.
27.6. Documentation of Data
27.6.1. All data must be recorded promptly, accurately, legibly,
indestructibly, and signed and dated by the Research Scholar and
countersigned by the Supervisor. Confidentiality is important for
data publication and protecting intellectual property.
27.6.2. All raw data, documents, protocols, specimens and reports shall
be retained and archived by the research supervisor. Data must be
retained intact for a period of at least 7 years from the date of any
publication. Proper documentation of data will help in establishing
ownership rights, and provide proof against charges of cheating or
falsification.
27.7. Publication
Annamalai University encourages researchers to publish research
data while emphasizing the paramount importance of quality over
quantity. All researchers shall refrain from “fudging” and fabricating
data. If an error is detected after publication, the corresponding
author shall request the journal to publish an erratum. If there
are concerns and serious doubts about the authenticity of the
data, the authors shall retract the paper from the journal. Any
deviation from GRP and indulgence in research misconduct will be
dealt with severely as detailed in the ensuing section.
32

27.8. Dissemination
Results that are published may be disseminated, provided there is
no infringement on any Intellectual Property Rights (IPR).
However, researchers must exercise utmost caution in discussing
work that is incomplete, unpublished, or pending patent
application.
28.0. RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
28.1. Annamalai University policy on defining and dealing with research
misconduct adheres to national and international conventions on
the issue and the policy statement issued by the Govt. of India on
addressing situations related to national integrity, which is the
foundation of research.
28.2. Research or scientific misconduct is defined as fabrication,
falsification and plagiarism, self-plagiarism, or deception in
proposing, carrying out or reporting research results. However,
honest error or differences of opinion cannot be classified as
research misconduct.
28.2.1. Fabrication involves making up results and publishing them.A
minor form of fabrication is where references are included to give
arguments the appearance of widespread acceptance, but are
actually fake, and/or do not support the argument.
28.2.2. Falsification refers to manipulation of research materials,
equipment, or processes or changing or omitting data or results
such that the research is not accurately represented in the
research record.
28.2.3. Plagiarism involves the appropriation of another person's ideas,
processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.
Plagiarism also includes deliberate failure to appropriately credit
prior work by others thereby giving a false impression of priority
(citation plagiarism). Self-plagiarism is also considered as
scientific misconduct.
28.2.4. Ghost-writing, the practice of commissioning an anonymous writer,
is also regarded as a form of plagiarism, because it undermines the
integrity of scientific publication system.
28.2.5. Unacceptable Authorship
Guest authorship refers to granting authorship out of respect for
an individual, or because it will increase the likelihood of
publication, credibility, or status of the work.
Gift authorship is credit offered from a sense of obligation, or
anticipated benefit, to an individual who has not contributed to the
work. Ghost authorship is denying authorship to an individual
33

who has made substantial contributions to the research or writing
of a manuscript.
28.2.6. Violation of ethical standards in human and animal experiments.
28.2.7. Suppression or failure to publish findings adverse to the researcher’s
interests.
28.2.8. Failure to follow established protocols if this failure results in
unreasonable risk or harm to humans or the environment and
facilitating of misconduct in research by collusion in, or
concealment of, such actions by others.
28.2.9. Intentional, unauthorized use, disclosure or removal of, or damage
to, research-related property of another, including apparatus,
materials, writings, data, hardware or software or any other
substancesor devices used in or produced by the conduct of
research.
29.0. INVESTIGATION OF RESEARCH MISCONDUCT
29.1.

A committee duly constituted by the University will investigate the
complaints of alleged research misconduct by the research scholars
and/or supervisors.

29.2.

The following is the composition of the committee to investigate the
complaints of alleged research misconduct by the research scholars
and/or supervisors
Designation

Members

The Director, DARE

Convener

The Dean of the concerned Faculty

Member

Head of the Department or a senior Professor in the
Department

Member

Head of the Department from the concerned faculty
(other than the scholar department) (nominated by
the Vice-Chancellor)

Member

One Lady Faculty member (nominated by the
Vice-chancellor)

Member

29.3. Confidentiality will be maintained during the investigation including
the identity of the individual registering the complaint
(complainant).
29.4. If the misconduct is unintended, due to an error in interpretation,
or the charges are baseless, the complaint will be dismissed.
However, a report will be filed in the office.

34

29.5. If the complaint is credible, the committee, after informing the
Ph.D. scholar and research supervisor against whom the complaint
has been made (the subjects), will assess the authenticity of the
charge, and the nature of the misconduct based on the material
evidence available.
29.6. The person (scholar/supervisor) will be allowed to defend
himself/herself. However, he/she shall provide the Committee
access to reports, raw data, electronic records, manuscripts and
any other material relevant to the investigation.
29.7. The committee shall complete its investigation and submit its report
on the recommended course of action within a period of thirty days.
29.8. Annamalai University regards research misconduct as a serious
offence and any member of staff/students may raise bonafide
concerns confidentially and without fear of suffering a detriment.
However, if the allegations prove to be made frivolously or with
malicious intent, formal action against the complainant will be
initiated.
29.9. If the charges of misconduct are proved, the subject(s) will be
notified and disciplinary action initiated.

CHAPTER III
TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
30.0. AMENDMENTS TO THE ORDINANCE
This ordinance is subject to modifications or amendments as and
when situation warrants from time to time by the Syndicate, based
on the recommendations of the Academic council.
31.0. INTERPRETATION OF THE ORDINANCE
If any dispute arises in the interpretation of the ordinance, the
decision of the Syndicate shall be final.

35

ANNEXURES

36

Annexure – 1
NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE
Date:
From

To
The Registrar
Annamalai University
Annamalai Nagar
Sir,
Sub: No Objection Certificate from the employer to register
for Ph.D. Programme under Part-time mode at
Annamalai University – Reg.
***
This is to certify that Mr. / Ms. __________________________________
is working as ___________________________________on regular basis from
______________________in our Organization / Institution / Industry and
he/she is interested in pursuing Ph.D. Degree Programme at Annamalai
University under Part-time mode.
We do not have any objection to him/her pursuing Ph.D. Degree
Programme under Part-time mode at Annamalai University. The
Organization is willing to depute the employee to Annamalai University as
and when he/she undertakes course work and other related research
work.

Signature and Seal of the
Concerned Authority

37

Annexure – 2
ANNAMALAIUNIVERSITY
(To be filled by co-supervisor (applicable for Part-time and
Interdisciplinary research)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Name of the Applicant
Name of the co-supervisor
Date of Birth & Age
Designation& Place of Work
Contact Address with
Phone/Mobile
e-mail:
6. Qualifications
Specialization
Name of Degree
(major)

College and
University

Month & Year of
Passing & Class

7. Title of the Ph.D. thesis
8. No. of research papers published in accredited/
indexed journals (enclose full list)
9. No. of books published / invited chapters
contributed (enclose list)
10. Total research experience (enclose details)
Years:
11. Positions held:
Name of Institution
From

Months:
To

12. Subject / Discipline in which propose to
guide Ph.D. Scholars
13. Whether already recognized as Ph.D. guide by any
other institution, if so, give details.
14. Total No. of candidates registered at present under
you as co-supervisor at Annamalai University.
Signature of Co-Supervisor

Signature of the Head of Institution

38

Annexure – 3
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Mr.C.Chandran (through the Research Supervisor)
Research Scholar
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Mr. C. Chandran, Research Scholar
– Change of Category –Orders issued.
Ref:

1. This office Lr.No.

/2019 dated 26-07-2019.

2.Letter Dt. 05-06-2020 from Dr. C.Chandran, research
scholar through supervisor and HoD of the department.
****
With reference to the letter 2nd cited, Mr. C. Chandran, Research Scholar,
registered under the supervision of Dr. K.Sivasankar, Associate Professor,
Department of Mechnical Engineering, is permitted to continue his Ph.D.
Programme from Part-Time to Full-Time/ Full-time to Part-time Category
with effect from 06-05-2020.
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. Dean, Faculty of Engineering & Technology.
2. The Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering,
3. Dr. K.Sivasankar, Associate Professor,
Department of Mechanical Engineering.

39

Annexure – 4
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. S. Murugan
Assistant Professor
Department of Management Studies
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sir / Madam,
Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Provisional Registration – Orders issued.
Ref: Vice-Chancellor approval dated 25-09-2020.
***
I am to inform that Ms. Suba S is permitted to register provisionally for
Ph.D. Programme as Part-Time scholar in the Department of Business
Administration of Annamalai University during 2020 session under your
guidance.
Topic of Research: QUALITY OF WORKLIFE OF SCHOOL TECHERS IN
DINDIGUL DISTRICT.
The Research Scholar may be instructed to submit the Enrolment
Form within a period of 15 days from the date of issue of this order. The
research scholar should submit the Semester Progress Report and
Registration Renewal Form in the prescribed format at the time of payment of
regular semester fee.
The
Registration
Number
of
the
research
scholar
is
Ph.D./191XXYY001.
In all future correspondence, quote “Ph.D./191XXYY001” – for
reference. The research scholar will be governed by the “Regulations 2019
for Ph.D. Programme” of this University and any amendments made to the
Regulations from time to time.
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. Ms. Suba S, Research Scholar, Department of Business Administration
2. Dean of the Faculty.
3. The Head of the Department
4. The Head of the Institution of the Scholar.

40

Annexure – 5
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. S. Elangovan
Professor
Department of Civil Engineering
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sir / Madam,
Sub: Ph.D. – Non-payment of yearly fees – Explanation called for – Reg.
Ref:

This office Lr.No.CR/Ph.D./Admn./JAN/2016 dt. 26-12-2015.

****
I wish to bring to your attention that the research scholar
Mr. Sivakumar, registered for Ph.D. under your supervision has not paid the
yearly fees for 2019-20.
Clause 8.3 of Ph.D. regulation reads “the registration is liable for
cancellation if the research scholar has not paid the yearly fees within the
stipulated time.”
I therefore request you to instruct the scholar to pay the fees online, in
any case on or before 10.06.2020 in order to enable him/her to continue
his/her research. If the fees is not paid before the above said period, the
registration of the scholar will be cancelled automatically without any further
intimation and the scholar cannot claim for continuation of his/her Ph.D.
Programme.
Yours faithfully,
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. The Dean, Faculty of Engineering and Technology.
2. The Head, Department of Civil Engineering,
3. Mr. Sivakumar, Research Scholar,
50/86, Ellai Amman Koil Street, Sivamalai Enclave, Pudukottai.

41

Annexure – 6
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
Reference No:
Application for Supervisor recognition for Ph.D.
1. Name & Contact Details

:

Mobile
Landline
E-mail
Date of Birth

:
:
:
:

2.Qualification Details

:

Sl.No

Degree

1.

Ph.D.

2.

M.Phil.

3.

PG

4.

UG

Sl.
No

Year of
Passing

University

3. Experience Details
Univ/R&D/Org/
Indu/Colleges

Dr. Velmurugan. P
Assistant Professor of Psychology
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002

Branch /
Specialization

Class /
CGPA
Obtained

:
Designation

From

To

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Total

42

Total
Years

4. Faculty

:

5. Department

:

6. Area(s) of Specialization

:

7. List of Publications

:

(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
8. Attach at least two best publications (Photo copy):

9. Any other details:

Signature of the Applicant

Recommended / Forwarded

Signature of
Head of the Department
(Name with Seal)

Signature of
Dean of the Faculty

Date :
Place :

43

Annexure – 7
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. P. Periasamy
Associate Professor
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sir / Madam,
Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Supervisor Recognition – Orders issued.
Ref: Your application for Supervisor Recognition.
***
I am by direction to inform that you are recognized as a Supervisor for
guiding Ph.D. scholars of this University under the faculty of Mechanical
Engineering.
Area of Specialization : “Heat Transfer, Nanofluids, Energy, IC Engines”.
I request you to adhere strictly to the regulations when you start
guiding scholars.
In all future correspondence, quote 320001 for reference.

DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. Dean, Faculty of Engineering & Technology.
2. The Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering.

44

Annexure – 8
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. M. Sivapragash
Associate Professor
Department of Economics
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sir / Madam,

Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Mr. A. Ramesh, Research Scholar –
Change of Supervisor –Orders issued.
Ref: 1. This Office Proceedings of even number dated 09-07-2019.
2. Letter dated 05-05-2020 from the Research Scholar
through the Supervisor & HOD.
***
Under the circumstances stated in the reference 2nd cited,
Dr. M. Sivapragash, Associate Professor, Department of Economics, has
been nominated as Supervisor in the place of Dr. T. Sasikumar, in respect
of the Research Scholar Mr. A. Ramesh.
Clause 9.14.1 of Ph.D. Regulation reads:
“If change of Supervisor is approved, the scholar has to work
for a minimum of one year with the new Supervisor.
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. Dean, Faculty of Arts.
2. The Head, Department of Economics,
3. Dr. T. Sasikumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Economics.
4. Mr. A. Ramesh, Research Scholar through
the Research Supervisor Dr. M. Sivapragash.

45

Annexure – 9
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. A. Anbarasu
Assistant Professor, Department of Physics
Annamalai University
Sir / Madam,
Sub :

Ph.D. Programme – Mr. A. Krishnan, Research Scholar –Break
of Study – Orders issued – Reg.

Ref:

1. Lr.No. CR/Ph.D/Admin/JUL/2020 Dt. 15-04-2020.

2. Letter Dt. 05-03-2020 Mr.A. Krishnan, Research Scholar
forwarded by Supervisor and Head of the Department.
*****
Under the circumstances explained in the reference 2nd cited, I am to
inform you that Mr. A. Krishnan, Ph.D. Research Scholar (Full-Time) has been
granted
break
of
study
for
a
period
of
6
months
from
01-11-2019 to 30-04-2020 with the following conditions.
i) He should pay the programme fees applicable periodically onthe due date
during the above period of break of study. If fees is not paid within the
stipulated time, registration shall be cancelled automatically without any
further intimation.
ii) The above period will also be reckoned for the calculation of the maximum
duration of the programme. After the break of study, the scholarhasto
continue the Ph.D. Programme to complete the minimum period excluding the
break of study period.
iii) He shall forward the joining report through the Supervisor and HoD of the
Supervisor to this office after availing the break of study.
Yours faithfully,
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. The Dean, Faculty of Science.
2. The Head, Department of Physics.
3. Mr. A. Krishnan, Research Scholar through the Supervisor Dr. A. Anbarasu.

46

Annexure – 10
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
REQUEST FOR EXTENSION OF TIME
Name of the Scholar
Roll No.
Programme

Ph.D.

Category of Registration

Full-Time / Part-Time

Faculty
Mobile No.
Email id
Date of Registration of the Programme
Supervisor Name & Address

Co-Supervisor Name & Address
(if applicable)
Reason for Extension of time:
Synopsis Submitted

:

Yes / No

Extension of time :

1 year / months* from …… to …..

Date :
Place :

Signature of the Scholar
Signature of the Co-Supervisor
(Name with Seal)

Signature of the Supervisor
(Name with Seal)

Signature of
Head of the Department
(Name with Seal)

Signature of the Dean
(Name with Seal)

47

48

Annexure – 11
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. K. Padma
Associate Professor
Department of Entomology
Annamalai University
Sir/Madam,
Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Mr. S. Venkatesh, Research
Scholar – Submission of Synopsis and Thesis Extension
– Orders issued – Reg.
Ref: Letter dated 17-08-2020 from Mr. S. Venkatesh,
Research Scholar Duly forwarded by the Supervisor
and HOD.
***
I am to inform that the research scholar Mr. S. Venkatesh has been
granted extension up to 31-12-2021 (7 years) beyond the maximum
period completed on 31-12-2020. Hence, the scholar shall be instructed
to pay the prescribed fees for the extended period along with the half
yearly progress report duly signed by the supervisor and RAC members.
The scholar’s registration shall be cancelled automatically without
any further intimation beyond the maximum extension period of one year.
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. Mr. S. Venkatesh, Research Scholar
through the Supervisor Dr. K. Padma.
2. The Dean, Faculty of Agriculture.
3. The Head, Department of Entomology.

49

Annexure – 12
DEPARTMENT OF _____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
MINUTES OF THE FIRST RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
The
Research
Advisory
Committee
Mr./Ms.
at 11 a.m.in the Department of Botany.

Meeting
of
(Roll No.

the

Ph.D.
Scholar,
) was held on

The following members were present.
1.

(Supervisor & Convener)

2.

(Co-Supervisor, if applicable)

3.

Head of the Department

4.

(Member)

5.

(Member)

Mr./Ms.
has presented an overview of the proposed research work. The
Research
Advisory
Committee
has
approved
the
research
topic
as
“......................................................................”. The Committee has recommended the
scholar to undertake the following course works based on the qualification of the
candidate and the proposed research area.
Course
Code

Course Title

Credits

Core Course/ Elective/
Special Elective

Number of course works as applicable to the scholars

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Signature of Head of the Department
(Name with Seal)

50

Annexure – 13
DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
MINUTES OF THE RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
FOR CONFIRMATION OF PROVISIONAL REGISTRATION
The Research Advisory Committee Meeting of the Ph.D. Scholar,
Mr./Ms. Janani. A (Roll.No. Ph.D./191XXYY001/Part-Time) was held
on at a.m./p.m. in the Department of History. The following members
were present:
Dr. Baskaran R

(Supervisor & Convener)

Dr. Kandasamy K

Co-Supervisor, if applicable

Dr. Abirami S

(Member)

Dr. Dhavachelvan P

(Member)

Dr. Jagadeesan R

Head of the Department

Mr./Ms. Janani. A has successfully completed the following course
works recommended by the Research Advisory Committee. He/She has
obtained the following grades in the course work.
Sl.
No

Course
Code

Course Title

Credits

Category

1.

Core

2.

Core

3.

Elective

Grade /
Marks

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
CGPA
Comprehensive Examination:

Pass / Fail *

CoE signed result sheet of the course works duly attested by the
Supervisor with seal should be enclosed along with this.
The scholar completed the first seminar presentation on ______________to
the faculty members and research scholars. The attendees list is enclosed
herewith. The committee also evaluated the research work carried out by
the scholar and satisfied/not satisfied with the performance of the
51

scholar. Hence, the Committee recommends/does not recommend the
confirmation of provisional registration of the scholar in the Faculty of
Science (Department of Zoology), and permits/does not permit the scholar
to proceed with his/her research work.

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

*Strike off whichever is not applicable

52

Annexure – 14
DEPARTMENT OF _____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
CHECK LIST FOR THE CONFIRMATION OF Ph.D. REGISTRATION
1.

Research Advisory Committee meeting Minutes and
Research Performance Assessment signed by all the
RAC members

YES/NO

2.

No. of Courses attended .........(not applicable for M.Phil.
scholars)

YES/NO

3.

Photo Copy of mark sheets of the course works signed by
COE attested by the Supervisor

YES/NO

4.

Original copy of the circular for the seminar presentation

YES/NO

5.

Attendance particulars for the seminar presentation
(Applicable to all scholars irrespective of year
registration)

YES/NO
of

6.

Comprehensive examination result mentioned in the RAC
minutes

YES/NO

7.

Approval of Research Advisory Committee members for
change of course work/ course code/course title

YES/NO

8.

For scholars with M.Phil. qualification, attested copy of
M.Phil. degree certificate
Mode of completion of M.Phil. degree: Full-time/Parttime/Distance mode

YES/NO

9.

Faculty for confirmation is same as that of Provisional
Registration

YES/NO

Checked and found Correct

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

53

Annexure – 15
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. K. Vijayan
Assistant Professor
Department of Physics
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sir / Madam,
Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Mr/Ms S. Venkatesh, Research
Scholar – Confirmation –Orders issued.
Ref:

1. This office. Lr.No.
Dt. 15-07- 2019.
2. Letter Dt. 20-07-2020 from Dr., K. Vijayan, Associate
Professor,
Department
of
Physics,
Annamalai
University.

****
The Provisional registration granted to Mr./Ms. S. Venkatesh to
pursue Ph.D. Programme in this University vide Ref. 1st cited is
confirmed. The research scholar is permitted to proceed further with the
research work as recommended by the Research Advisory Committee
constituted for the research scholar under the Faculty of Science
(Department of Physics).
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. Dean, Faculty of Science.
2. The Head, Department of Physics,
3. Mr. S. Venkatesh, Research Scholar through
the Supervisor Dr. K. Vijayan.

54

Annexure – 16
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Lr. No.

Date:

To
Dr. K. Abraham
Associate Professor, Department of History
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar – 608 002
Sir / Madam,
Sub: Ph.D. Programme – Mr. R. Pugalenthi, Provisional
Registration –Cancellation – Orders issued – Regarding.
Ref: 1. This office Lr.No. Ph.D/Admn/JAN/2018 dt
23-12-2017.
2. Letter dated 02-01-2019 from the Research Scholar,
Mr. R. Pugalenthi, forwarded through the Supervisor
and Head of the Department.
***
Under the circumstances stated in the letter 2nd cited, I am to
inform you that the provisional registration granted to the Research
Scholar Mr. R. Pugalenthi, for pursuing Ph.D. Programme in the
Department of History (Faculty of Arts) in this University in the reference
1st cited, stands cancelled. The candidate cannot claim the continuation
of registration in the future.
Yours faithfully,
DIRECTOR
Copy to
1. The Dean, Faculty of Arts.
2. The Head, Department of History,
3. Mr./Ms. R. Pugalenthi, Research Scholar,
10-A, South Mada Street, 1st Moorthy Samy Colony,Cuddalore.

55

Annexure – 17
DEPARTMENT OF _____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
Research Progress Report
(To be submitted every six months from date of Registration)

1.
2.

Name and Roll No. of the
Scholar
Programme

:
: Ph.D.

3.

Title of research work

:

4.

Date of previous RAC meeting

:

5.

Brief report of the research work carried out between previous and present
RAC meetings. Mention the objectives completed:

6.

List research paper published/accepted for publication/communicated for
publication / patents (National /International) filed / approved:

7.

National / International Conference/Symposia attended (Give details such
as Name of the Conference, venue, title, period):

8.

Overall assessment and comments about the progress of the research
scholar:

FT/PT (Internal /External)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
Note: Research Performance Assessment restricted to maximum 2 pages should
be submitted along with the minutes of RAC meeting duly signed by RAC
members.

56

Annexure – 18
DEPARTMENT OF _____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
MINUTES OF THE RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
FOR SUBMISSION OF SYNOPSIS
The Research Advisory Committee Meeting of the Ph.D. Scholar,
Mr./Ms.
(Roll No.
) was held on
at
a.m./p.m.
in the Department of . The following members were present.
1.

(Supervisor & Convener)

2.

(Co-Supervisor, if applicable)

3.

Head of the Department

4.

(Member)

5.

(Member)

The Research Advisory Committee critically reviewed the research work
entitled “…….................................................................”
carried out by
Mr./Ms.
and the contents of the draft Synopsis. The scholar
completed the pre-synopsis presentation on ………
to the faculty members
and research scholars. The attendees list is enclosed herewith. The scholar
has ..... publications in the journals (SCI/UGC listed) from his/her research
work.
The scholar has the following publications in the listed journals.
1.

.......................................... (Accepted/Published)

2.

.......................................... (Accepted/Published)

It is also certified that the Paper/Papers mentioned above are within the
scope of the Journal and the paper/papers is/are relevant to the Ph.D. work
carried out by the scholar.
The Committee is satisfied with the research performance of the scholar, the
quality and quantum research work and approves the Synopsis submission.
The Committee also recommends the panel of Indian and Foreign Examiners
for the evaluation of the Thesis.
Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Annexure – 19
57

DEPARTMENT OF _____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
CERTIFICATE FOR SUBMISSION OF SYNOPSIS
AFTER COMPLETION OF MINIMUM DURATION
1.

Name of the Research Scholar

:

2.

Roll No.

:

3.

Date
of
Provisional
Confirmation

4.

Faculty & Department

:

5.

Category of Registration

:

6.

Date of RAC
submission

7.

Break of study availed (if any) mention
the period

:

8.

Duration of research period from the
date
of
submission
of
synopsis
excluding the break of study period

:

Year

Synopsis
submitted
minimum duration

:

Yes / No

:

Yes / No

9.

meeting

Registration&

for

synopsis

within

the

If Yes, whether the scholar has two
10. publications as per the Annamalai
University norms

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

:

Full-Time / Part-Time

:

Month

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

58

Annexure – 20

List of attendees for the Pre-Synopsis seminar Presentation of
Mr. K. RATNAVELU, Department of Computer Science &
Engineering, held on 15.07.2020 at 10.00 a.m. in the Seminar Hall,
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering,
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar – 608 002.
Sl.No.

Name

Designation & Address

1.

Dr. P. Aruna,
RAC Member.

Professor and Head,
Department of CS&E

2.

Dr. S. Pasupathy,
Supervisor.

Associate Professor,
Department of CS&E

3.

Dr. M. Balasubramanian,
RAC Member.

Associate Professor,
Department of CS&E

4.

Dr. V. Srinivasan,
RAC Member.

Professor,
Department of
Information &Technology

Signature

5.
.
.
.
.
24.
25.

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

59

Annexure – 21
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
PROFORMA FOR SUBMISSION OF SYNOPSIS
I.

Registration Details:
Name of the Scholar:
Contact No.:
Email ID:

Roll No.:

Name of the Supervisor:
Contact No.:
Email ID:

Name of the Co-Supervisor:
Contact No.:
Email ID:

Category at the time of
Registration

Change of Category, if
any

Month and Year of
Registration

Period of break of study
granted, if any

Date of Confirmation

Date of Completion of
minimum period

Faculty and Department as per the
Provisional Registration Order
Date
of
completion
maximum period

of

Extension
of
period
approved (mention date)

Date of Research Advisory
Committee
meeting
for
approval of Synopsis
II.

Date of submission
Synopsis

upto:

of

Semester Fee Payment Details:
Month and Year
Amount Paid

III. Course Work Details:
Course
Code

Course Title

Credits

Core
Course/Elective/Special
Elective

Grade/Marks

CGPA
Comprehensive Examination

60

Pass/Fail

IV. Progress Report:
Period

Jan-Jun

Jul-Dec

Jan-Jun

Jul-Dec

Jan-Jun

Jul-Dec

Jan-Jun

Jul-Dec

Date of
Submission

V.

Proof for Confirmation & Change of Category (if any)

:

VI. Proof for the Seminar Presentations (attach the Circular copies)

:

VII. Publication Details:
Journal

Published

National
International
Enclose photo copy of the papers published.
VIII. Details of Synopsis Fee:
Amount (Rs.)

D.D. No.

D.D. Date

Name of the Bank

Branch

IX. Whether Synopsis submitted within the maximum duration:
If No, copy of the Extension order should be enclosed:

YES/NO

Certify that the information furnished above is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.

Signature of the
Research Scholar

Signature of the Co-Supervisor

Signature of the Supervisor

Signature of the
Head of the Department

(Name with Seal)
(if applicable)

(Name with Seal)

(Name and Seal)

(for Office use only) Checked and Accepted
Dealing Hand

61

Annexure – 22
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
CHECK LIST WHILE SUBMITTING Ph.D. SYNOPSIS
1.

Proforma for submission of Synopsis

YES/NO

2.

Whether change of Supervisor is approved
a.) if yes, attach a copy of the letter
b.) Whether the scholar has completed a minimum of one year with the
new Supervisor

YES/NO

3.

Five copies of the Synopsis with soft copy as per Annamalai University
Regulations

YES/NO

4.

Original Minutes of the Research Advisory Committee signed by all the
members

YES/NO

5.

Panel of Examiners (both Indian and Foreign) with complete and
correct postal address including Phone No, Mobile No, Fax No and
correct Official E-mail ID (typed only)in a closed cover

YES/NO

6.

Recent publications list of all Foreign and Indian examiners in the last
5 years in a closed cover

YES/NO

7.

The panel of Foreign Examiners should not be of Indian origin

YES/NO

8.

Photo Copy of the Provisional Registration Confirmation order

YES/NO

9.

Photo copies of UG and PG Degree Certificates attested by HOD

YES/NO

10.

Synopsis fee of Rs.
– in the form of DD (any nationalized bank)
drawn in favour of “Register, Annamalai University,Annamalainagar608002” with filled challan

YES/NO

11.

Photo copy of the Journal publications

YES/NO

12.

Photo Copy of the fee challan for all the yearly till the submission of Synopsis

YES/NO

13.

Certificate for submission of synopsis after the completion of minimum
duration

YES/NO

14.

a.) Whether the Synopsis is submitted within the maximum duration
b.) If No, enclosed copy of the Extension order

YES/NO

15.

Photo Copy of the circular for the pre-synopsis presentation

YES/NO

16.

Attendance particulars for the pre-synopsis presentation
(Applicable to all scholars irrespective of year of registration)

YES/NO

17.

Report from “URKUND” Software attached for all Published / accepted
Papers listed in Synopsis

YES/NO

Signature of the
Co-Supervisor

Checked and found Correct

Signature of the Supervisor

62

Signature of the
Head of the Department

Annexure – 23
PANEL OF INDIAN EXAMINERS FOR Ph.D. THESIS EVALUATION
Name and Roll No. of the Scholar

:

Programme
Title of the Thesis
Faculty& Dept. as per PG Qualification
Name of the Supervisor
Name of the Co-Supervisor (if applicable)

:
:
:
:
:

Sl.
No.

Ph.D.

FT/PT (Internal / External)

Name with full and correct postal address with pin code

Area of specialization

PANEL OF INDIAN EXAMINERS
(Preferably from IITs, NITs, Universities and Government Institutions)
(Not less than Associate Professor)
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :

Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:

Note: For each expert, the list of publications in reputed Journals indexed with Scopus/Web of
Science/Thomson Reuters/ISI with impact factor during the last five years to be enclosed.
Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
(if applicable)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Dean
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

63

Annexure – 24
PANEL OF FOREIGN EXAMINERS FOR Ph.D. THESIS EVALUATION
Name and Roll No. of the Scholar

:

Programme
Title of the Thesis
Faculty& Dept. as per PG Qualification
Name of the Supervisor
Name of the Co-Supervisor (if applicable)

:
:
:
:
:

Sl.
No.

Ph.D.

FT/PT (Internal / External)

Name with full and correct postal address with zip code

Area of specialization

PANEL OF FOREIGN EXAMINERS
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :
Name
:
Designation :
Department :
Address
:
Mobile :

Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:
Area of specialization

Official E-mail:

No. of Publications:

Note: For each expert, the list of publications in reputed Journals indexed with Scopus/Web of
Science/Thomson Reuters/ISI with impact factor during the last five years to be enclosed.
Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Member
(Signature with Name and Date)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
(if applicable)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Dean
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

64

Annexure – 25
PROFORMA FOR SUBMISSION OF Ph.D. THESIS
I. Registration Details:
Name of the Scholar:
Contact No:
Email ID:

Roll No:

Name of the Supervisor:
Contact No :
Email ID :

Name of the Co-Supervisor:
Contact No :
Email ID :

Category at
Registration

the

time

of

Change of category, if any

Month and Year of Registration

Period of break of study
granted, if any

Date of confirmation

Date of completion of
minimum period

Date of completion of
Maximum period

Extension of period
approved (mention date)

Date of RAC meeting for
Approval of synopsis

Date of submission of
thesis

upto:

II. Extension of time for thesis submission beyond 3 months after the
submission of synopsis(if any):
Late fee details:
Amount (Rs.)

D.D. No.

D.D. Date

Name of the bank

Branch

III. Whether No Dues Certificate is enclosed :
Certified that the information furnished above is true and correct to the best of
my knowledge.
Signature of the Scholar
Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
(if applicable)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
(For Office use only) Checked and Accepted
Dealing Hand

65

Annexure – 26
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
CHECK LIST WHILE SUBMITTING Ph.D. THESIS
1.

Five Copies of the Thesis (with soft copy of the Thesis in PDF
format with each copy) prepared as per the guidelines of
Annamalai University

YES/NO

2.

(a) Whether the thesis is submitted within the maximum
duration

YES/NO

(b) if no, enclose copy of the extension order.

YES/NO

3.

Whether the thesis is submitted within three months from the
synopsis meeting

YES/NO

4.

Proforma for submission of thesis

YES/NO

5.

No dues certificate (original)

YES/NO

6.

Checked for language and grammar

YES/NO

7.

Report from “URKUND” software attached

YES/NO

Synopsis and Thesis titles are the same.

Checked and found correct

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
(if applicable)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

66

Annexure – 27
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
NO DUES CERTIFICATE
(To be submitted along with Thesis to
the Director, DARE, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar)
Name of the Scholar

:

Programme

: Ph.D. FT/PT (Internal / External)

Roll No
Department and Faculty
Month & Year of Submission of Thesis

:
:
:

Sl.
No.
1.

University Library

2.

Department Library

3.

D1- Section

4.
5.

Department of the
Supervisor and Scholar
Department Store

6.

Hostel Office

7.

Project Section (G/CRD)

8.

Scholarship Section (H)

9.

Details

No Dues Certificate

Signature
(Name with Seal)

Director, DARE

(For Office use Only)

*Strike off whichever is not applicable

Declaration
I hereby declare that in the event of any due from me found at a later
date, I shall pay the same to the Institution.
Signature of the Scholar
Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
(if applicable)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

67

Annexure – 28
DEPARTMENT OF ____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

CERTIFICATE
a) This is to certify that the Viva-voce examination may be conducted for
the candidate Mr./Ms. _______________________________________ for the
award of Doctor of Philosophy in _____________________________, since
both the examiners have recommended for the award of Degree.
(OR)
b) This is to certify that all corrections and suggestions pointed out by
the Indian / foreign examiner(s) are incorporated in the thesis titled
“______________________________________________” submittedby Mr./Ms.
___________________________________________.
So
the
Viva-voce
examination may be conducted for the award of Doctor of Philosophy
in ___________________________________.
Place:
Date:

Member
(Research Advisory Committee)

Member
(Research Advisory Committee)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Dean
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

68

Annexure – 29
DEPARTMENT OF _____________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
MINUTES OF THE RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
FOR RESUBMISSION OF THESIS
The Research Advisory Committee Meeting of the Ph.D. Scholar, Mr./Ms.
(Roll No.
) was held on
at
a.m./p.m. in the Department.
of
. The following members were present:
1.

(Supervisor & Convener)

2.

(Co-Supervisor, if applicable)

3.

Head of the Department

4.

(Member)

5.

(Member)

The Comments given by the examiners have been reviewed by the
Research Advisory Committee, and the committee certifies that the
corrections were carried out by the scholar as suggested by the
examiner(s).
He/She is permitted to resubmit the thesis.
Title of the Thesis “

”.

Member
(Research Advisory Committee)

Member
(Research Advisory Committee)

Co-Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

69

Annexure – 30
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
DIRECTOR

Email:careau2018@gmail.com

Proceedings No. 2011174172/Ph.D./AR6.
Sub:

Date:

Ph.D. Programme – Constitution of Viva-VoceExamination Board –
Conduct of Viva-voce in respect of Mr. M. Kandan – Orders issued –
Regarding.

The Vice-Chancellor is pleased to constitute a Viva-voce Examination Board consisting of the
following experts to conduct the Viva-voce Examination in respect of the Research Scholar,
Mr. M. Kandan.
1. Dr. K. Srinivasan
Supervisor and Convener
Associate Professor,
Department of Computer Science
&Engineering.
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar.
2. Professor and Head,
Internal Examiner & Member
Department of Computer Science
&Engineering.
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar.
3. Dr. B. Ramadoss,
Indian Examiner & Member
Professor, Department of Computer Science &Engineering,
National Institute of Technology,
Tiruchirappalli – 620 015.
The Convener of the Viva-voce Examination Board is requested to conduct the Viva-voce
Examination on a convenient date except Saturday, Sunday and Public holidays. The Viva-voce
Examination for the above scholar shall be conducted as an “Open Defense Type”. The Outside
member is eligible for TA/DA as per Annamalai University norms. The date of Viva-voce
examination may be fixed by the Convener (in consultation with Indian Examiner and the Head of
the Department) and the same may be communicated to the Director, DARE 15 days in advance.
The convener shall conduct the Viva-voce Examination after a minimum of one week from
the date of Viva-voce notification signed by the HOD. The Viva-voce notification shall be
necessarily communicated to other Institutions/University HoDs, for which evidence to be
produced along with minutes of the Viva-Voce examination. A minimum of twenty five members
excluding the examiners should participate in the Viva-voce examination, for which the list of
participants shall be sent along with minutes of Viva-voce.
A copy of the Viva-Voce notification and the minutes of the Viva-voce Examination Board
shall be sent to the undersigned as per the format specified soon after theViva-voce is over for
taking appropriate action.
The receipt of the proceedings may please be acknowledged.
DIRECTOR
To
Convener & Members

Annexure – 31

70

DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
CIRCULAR
Ph.D. Public Viva-Voce Examination
Name of the Scholar

:

Roll Number

:

Category of Registration

: Full-time/Part-time (Internal/External)

Faculty & Department

:

Title of the Thesis

:

Date and Time of Viva-voce Examination

:

Venue

:

Name and address of the Supervisor

:

Name and address of the Indian Examiner :
All are cordially invited
Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)
Copy to:

1. The Controller of Examinations.
2. The Deans of Faculties.
3. The Heads of Departments with request to display in the Department Notice
Board.
4. The Director, DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE).
5. The Director, Academic Affairs.
6. The Director, Research and Development Centre.
7. The University Librarian.
8. The Heads of Departments of other Universities/Colleges/IIT/NIT/IIM with
request to display in their Department Notice Board.
9. P.S to Vice-chancellor.
10. P.A to Registrar.

71

Annexure – 32
DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
Proceedings of the Ph.D. Viva-voce Examination of Mr. Saravanakumar. R held at
10:30 AM on 20.05.2020 at the Department of English, AnnamalaiUniversity,
Annamalainagar.
The Ph.D. Viva-voce Examination of Mr. Saravanakumar. R (Roll. No.
) on
his/her Ph.D. Thesis Entitled “
” was conducted on 20.05.2020 at 10:30 AM in
the Department of English, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar.
The following members of the Viva-voce Examination Board were present:
1.

Dr. P. Dhanavel, Professor of English,
Indian Institute of Technology,
Chennai – 600 032.

IndianExaminer

2.

Professor and Head,
Department of English,
Annamalai University,
Annamalainagar – 608 002.

Internal Examiner

3.

Dr. K. Rajaraman, Professor of English,
Annamalai University,
Annamalainagar – 608 002.

Supervisor& Convener

The Research scholar, Mr. Saravanakumar.R, presented the salient features of his/her
Ph.D. work. This was followed by questions from the viva-voce examination members.
The questions raised by the Foreign and Indian Examiners were also put to the scholar.
The scholar answered the questions to the full satisfaction of the board members.
The corrections suggested by the Indian/Foreign examiner have been carried out and
incorporated in the Thesis before the viva-voce examination.
Based on the scholar’s research work, his/her presentation and also the clarifications
and answers by the scholar to the questions, the viva- voce board recommends that
Mr. Saravanakumar. R be awarded Ph.D. Degree in the Faculty of Arts (Department of
English).

Indian Examiner

Internal Examiner

Supervisor & Convener

Annexure – 33

72

DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
List of Participants who attended the Public Viva-voce Examination in
respect of Ms. R. ANURADHA, Department of Sociology on 10.07.2020 at
11.00a.m in the Seminar Hall, Department of Sociology, Annamalai University,
Annamalainagar.
Sl.
No
1.

Name

Designation &
Address

Prof. P. Kandasamy

Signature

Professor and Head,
Department of Sociology,
Madurai Kamaraj
University, Madurai.

Indian Examiner

2.

Prof.Raviramachandra Rao
Internal Examiner

Professor and Head,
Department of Sociology,
Annamalai University.

3.

Dr. Veerappan
Supervisor& Convener

Associate Professor,
Department of Sociology,
Annamalai University.

4.
5.
.
.
.
10.

Indian Examiner

Internal Examiner

Supervisor & Convener

73

Annexure – 34
DEPARTMENT OF ___________________________
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
CHECK LIST WHILE SUBMITTING THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
VIVA-VOCE EXAMINATION
1. Original Proceedings of the Viva-voce Examination signed by all YES/NO
the members of the Viva-voce Board
2. Attendance/Participants list (Original)

YES/NO

3. Photo copy of P.G./M.Phil. Degree Certificate (Attested by HoD)

YES/NO

4. Photo copy of Ph.D. Viva-voce Notification

YES/NO

Checked and found Correct

Supervisor
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Head of the Department
(Signature with Name, Date and Seal)

Note: For Provisional Certificate:
The candidate has to send a request letter addressed to
the Director, DARE through proper channel with the Ph.D. Viva-voce
Completion Certificate and requisite payment.

74

Annexure – 35
DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
Email:careau2018@gmail.com

DIRECTOR
Ref: No.

Date:
TO WHOMSOEVER IT MAY CONCERN

This is to certify that Mr. M. Kandan, Ph.D. Research Scholar in the
Faculty of Engineering and Technology (Department of Civil & Structural
Engineering), Annamalai University, Annamalainagar – 608002, has
successfully

completed

his

Viva-voce

Examination

held

on

15-07-2020.

The Viva-voce Examination Board has recommended the

award of Ph.D. Degree to Mr. M. Kandan.
The title of the thesis “…………………………………………….”
The Ph.D. Degree is in compliance with the UGC Regulations 2016.

DIRECTOR,
Directorate of Academic Research

75

DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
DIRECTOR

Email:careau2018@gmail.com

Lr.No.

Date:

To

Dear Professor,
Sub:

Evaluation of Ph.D. Thesis – Consent – Requested – Reg.
****

I am pleased to inform that the Vice-Chancellor has nominated you based on
your experience and expertise to evaluate the Ph.D. thesis entitled
“Determinants of Employees Well-Being in the Textile Industry in Karur
District” submitted by Mr. S. Thirumal, Ph.D. Scholar from the Department of
Business Administration. The soft/hard copy of the synopsis is attached along
with this letter for your reference.
I request you to send your consent within 15 days from the date of receipt of this
letter through above e-mail address.
After your consent, the hard copy of the thesis will be sent to you through post. I
therefore request you to write your complete postal address. In case, if you wish
to have the soft copy of the thesis for evaluation, I will arrange to send the soft
copy to your official email id.
The remuneration for valuing the thesis is Rs. 900.00 for Indian Examiner and
125 U.S. $ for Foreign Examiner.
The appointment as examiner for evaluation of the thesis is strictly confidential.
You can decline the offer, if the scholar is your relative or known to you
personally. All your queries can be clarified from the Director, DARE through
email.
With Best Regards,
Yours sincerely,
DIRECTOR
Encl.:
Copy of the Synopsis and Form of Acceptance.

76

FORM OF ACCEPTANCE FOR EVALUATION OF Ph.D. THESIS
From

To
The Director
Directorate of Academic Research (DARE)
Annamalai University
Annamalainagar – 608002
Tamil Nadu, India.

Sir / Madam,
Ref: Your Letter No. / Mail …………………………………. dated ………… .
*****
I
accept
the
offer
of
evaluation
of
thesis
entitled
………………………………………………………………………………………………………s
ubmitted by ……………………………………………. for the award of Ph.D. Degree in
……………………………………….
(Please fill up the following particulars)

1.

Name of the Examiner

:

2.

Educational Qualification

:

3.

Experience

Teaching
Research :

4.

Field of specialization

:

5.

Address (Official/Residential)

:

Phone No. / Mobile No.
E-mail ID

:
:

Vacation Address

:

6.

Station:

PG :

Years

UG :

Years
Years

Signature

Date:

77

DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY,

ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Dr. …..
DIRECTOR

Email:careau2018@gmail.com

Lr.No.

Date:

Dear Dr….,
Sub:

Annamalai University – Ph.D. Thesis of Mr. …….. – Evaluation Report –
Requested – Reg.

Ref:

Your acceptance letter/ Email Dated …..
****

I gratefully acknowledge your letter cited above and thank you for accepting to evaluate
the Ph.D. Thesis of Mr…………………, entitled “………………………...........”.
I enclose the thesis with a request to evaluate it and forward your assessment in the
prescribed Evaluation Report Form. In addition, you are also requested to give a detailed
report, indicating your specific comments on the thesis and questions, if any, to be
answered by the candidate at the time of Viva-voce Examination. If the thesis requires
any revision, I request you to suggest the specific nature of revision so that it will help
the scholar to revise suitably.
I once again request you to send your Evaluation Report along with a detailed report and
claim bill at an early date (in any case, not exceeding 45 days). Kindly quote the
Reference No: ………......... in all future correspondence.
Since evaluation of Ph.D. thesis is highly confidential, I request you to contact only the
Director, DARE for clarifications such as acceptance, evaluation report etc. No
correspondence should be made to the supervisor or with scholar or with any other
person in this matter.
With Best Regards,
Yours sincerely,

DIRECTOR
Encl.:
1.
2.
3.

Thesis
Evaluation Report Form
Remuneration Claim Form

To

78

DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
Ph.D. Thesis: Examiner’s Evaluation Report
1.

Name of the Candidate

:

2.

Reference No.

:

3.

Title of the Thesis

:

4.

Overall Assessment

: Place the thesis in ANY ONE of the following
categories by a tick () mark.
(Strikeout the statements which are not applicable)

(a)

I recommend the acceptance of the thesis in the present
form and further based on the standard attained, I classify
the work as HIGHLY COMMENDED/COMMENDED
(or)

(b)

I recommend the acceptance of the thesis. However, the
Scholar shall incorporate the corrections indicated in my
detailed report and place the corrected copy to the Oral
Examination Board but the corrected thesis need not be
sent to me
(or)

(c)

I defer my recommendation at this stage and the Scholar
shall incorporate the suggested modifications in the thesis
and the corrected thesis along with the Scholar’s
clarifications shall be sent to me.
(or)

(d)

I reject the thesis for the reasons set out in my detailed
report

Note:

Date:

In addition to placing the thesis in ANY ONE of the above categories, a
detailed report in about 300 words (or longer, if necessary) on the
strength and weakness of the thesis shall be enclosed. Also enclose a list
of questions/ clarifications, if any, to be asked during the public VivaVoce Examination.

Signature of the Examiner :
(not to be typed)

Place:

Name in BLOCK Letters

:

Address

:

79

DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002

Claim for the work done in connection with the evaluation of Ph.D. Thesis
in

respect of the Ph.D. Research Scholar, Mr……............................, Roll. No.

.............................
Ref. No: ………………………..
From
Dr. ……….....................

Remuneration Claimed for Evaluation
of Ph.D. Thesis

Ph.D. Thesis Evaluation
Evaluation of Ph.D. Thesis in respect

Rs. .................

of Mr. …………………

Place :
Date :
Signature of the Indian Examiner

For Office Use Only

Passed for payment of Rs. ………… (Rupees ………………………………………….)

Director ,CARE

80

DIRECTORATE OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH (DARE)
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR – 608002
Remuneration Claim Form
Received US $ …..in connection with the evaluation of Ph.D. Thesis in
respect of the Ph.D. Research Scholar, Mr…….
IMPORTANT: Please type the following details in CAPITAL LETTERS to remit the
remuneration of US $ … directly into your Bank Account through SWIFT
transfer
1.

Name of the Examiner

:

2.

Full Postal Address

:

3.

Your Bank Account No

:

4.

Name of the Bank and Branch with
full address

:

5.

Your Bank’s SWIFT Code No.

:

6.

Your Bank’s IBAN Code No.

:

7.

Your Bank’s Branch Code No.

:

8.
9.

Your Bank’s State Branch Code No.
(for Australian Bank)
Your Email id

:
:

Place :
Date :
Signature of the Foreign Examiner
For Office Use Only
Examined and found to be correct
Passed for payment of US $ ….. (US Dollars ……… only)

on………..
Director,DARE

81

GUIDELINES FOR THE
PREPARATION OF
SYNOPSIS AND THESIS

82

Appendix I

GUIDELINES FOR THE PREPARATION OF SYNOPSIS
Synopsis should outline the research problem, the methodology used for
tackling it and the summary and conclusion of the findings. The size of
the Synopsis should not exceed 15 pages of typed matter reckoned from
the first page to the last page including the list of references and list of
publications of the scholar. The sequence in which the synopsis should
be arranged is as follows with references and list of publications in
separate pages.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Cover page and title page (as shown in the Annexure I)
Text divided into suitable headings (numbered consecutively)
References (not more than 12)
List of publications (those published/accepted for publications.
Mention the impact factor of the journal- only Web of science or
Scopus impact factor)

Standard A4 size (297 mm x 210 mm) bond paper may be used for
preparing the synopsis. The synopsis should have the following page
margins:
Top edge

:

30 to 35 mm

Bottom edge

:

25 to 30 mm

Left side

:

35 to 40 mm

Right side

:

20 to 25 mm

The synopsis should be prepared using good quality white paper
preferably not lower than 80GSM. One and half line spacing should be
used for typing the general text. The general text shall be typed in Font
Style Times New Roman and Font Size 13. One or two tables/figures may
be included at appropriate places in the text of the synopsis and they
should conform to the margin specification. All page numbers (Arabic
numbers) should be typed without punctuation on the upper right hand
corner 20 mm from top with the last digit in line with the right hand
margin. Synopsis should be soft bound with black calico cloth and using
flexible cover of thick white art paper. The cover should be printed in
black letters and the text for printing should be identical to what has
been prescribed for the title page. The references such as journals, books,
E-books, conference proceedings, patents, etc should be typed following
the International standard.

A typical Specimen of Cover page and Title Page
<Font style Time New Roman>
83

SELECTIVE CATALYTIC REDUCTION OF NO

x

ON NEW CATALYTIC SYSTEMS
<Font Size 18><1.5 line spacing>
A SYNOPSIS <Font Size14>
Submitted by <Font Size 14><Italic>

GOVINDARAJAN K R <Font Size 16>
in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of
the degree of
<Font Size 14><Italic><1.5 line spacing>

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY <Font size 16>

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR 608 002 <Font Size 16><1.5 line
spacing>
APRIL 2020 <Font Size 14>

84

SELECTIVE CATALYTIC REDUCTION OF NO

x

ON NEW CATALYTIC SYSTEMS
A SYNOPSIS

Submitted by

GOVINDARAJAN K R
in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award
of the degree of

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR 608 002
APRIL 2020

85

Appendix II

GUIDELINES FOR THE PREPARATION OF THESIS
The scholars are expected to read carefully the guidelines and
meticulously follow them in the preparation of the thesis.
Non-compliance with any of these instructions may lead to the rejection of
the thesis submitted.
1. GENERAL
This Manual is intended to provide general guidelines to the research
scholars in the preparation of the thesis. In general, the thesis shall
report, in an organized and scholarly fashion, an account of original
research work of the research scholar leading to the discovery of new
facts or techniques or correlation of facts already known (analytical,
experimental hardware oriented, etc.). Thesis shall demonstrate quality
as to make a definite contribution to the advancement of knowledge
and the research scholar’s ability to undertake sustained research and
present the findings in an appropriate manner with actual
accomplishments of the work.
2. SIZE OF THE THESIS
The size of the thesis shall be normally between 100 and 300 pages of
typed matter reckoned from the title page to the last page of thesis
including the reference section.
3. ARRANGEMENT OF THE CONTENTS OF THE THESIS
The sequence in which the thesis material should be arranged and
bound as follows:
1. Cover page and Title page (as shown in Annexure I)
2. Certificate (as shown in Annexure II)
3. Declaration by the Scholar (Annexure III)
4. Abstract
5. Acknowledgement (one page only)
6. Table of contents (Annexure IV)
7. List of Tables (Annexure V)
8. List of Figures (Annexure VI)
9. List of Abbreviations and Symbols (Annexure VII)
10. Chapters
11. Appendices (if applicable)
12. References
13. List of Publications
The Tables and Figures should be included subsequently after
referring to them in the text of the thesis. The thesis starting from
chapters should be printed on both sides.
86

4.

QUALITY OF PAPER AND MARGIN SPECIFICATIONS
The thesis should be prepared using good quality white paper
preferably not lower than 80 GSM. Standard A4 size bond paper
may be used for preparing the thesis. The dimensions of the final
bound thesis (5 copies) should be 290 mm x 205 mm.
The following page margins should be followed while preparing the
thesis:
Top edge
:
30 to 35 mm
Bottom edge
:
25 to 30 mm
Left side
:
35 to 40 mm
Right side
:
20 to 25 mm
The Tables and figures should also conform to the margin
specifications. Large size figures should be photographically or
otherwise reduced to the appropriate size.

5.

MANUSCRIPT PREPARATION

While preparing the thesis manuscript, attention should be paid to
ensure that all textual matter is typewritten in the same format to
the extent possible. Hence, some of the information required for the
final typing of the thesis is presented in this section. The headings
of all items from 2 to 12 listed in section 3 should be typed in upper
case letters without punctuation and centered 50 mm below the top
of the page. The text should start 4 spaces below the heading. The
page numbering from 1 to 8 should be done using lower case
Roman numerals and the pages from 9 to 12 should be numbered
using Arabic numerals.
5.1 Cover Page and title Page
A specimen copy of the cover page and title page for the thesis is
given in Annexure II.
5.2 Certificate
The certificate shall be typed in double line spacing using font style
Times New Roman and Font size 12 as per the format shown in
Annexure III. The certificate shall be signed by the Supervisor and
shall be followed by the supervisor’s name academic designation,
department and full address of the institution where the supervisor
has guided the scholar. Signature of the co-supervisor with details
should be included wherever applicable.
5.3

Abstract
Abstract should be an essay type of description not exceeding four
pages outlining the research problem, methodology used and
summary of the findings. This shall be typed in one and a half line
spacing using Font style Times New Roman and Font size 12.
87

5.4

Acknowledgement
It should be very brief and restricted to one page only when typed in
one and a half line spacing. The scholar’s signature shall be affixed
at the bottom right end above the scholar’s name typed in capitals.

5.5

Table of contents
The title page, certificate and acknowledgement will not find a place
among the items listed in the Table of Contents, but the page
numbers of which are in lower case Roman letters. One and a half
line spacing should be adopted for typing the matter under this
head. A specimen copy of the table of contents for the thesis is
given in Annexure IV.

5.6

List of Tables
The list should use exactly the same captions as they are written
above the tables in the text. One and a half line spacing should be
used for typing under this heading.

5.7

List of Figures
The list should use exactly the same captions as they appear below
the figures in the text. One and a half line spacing should be used
for typing under this heading.

5.8

List of symbols and abbreviations
One and a half line spacing shall be used for typing the matter
under this heading. Standard symbols, abbreviations, etc., shall be
used.

5.9

Chapters
The chapters may be broadly classified into three parts: (i)
introduction, (ii) the main theme of the thesis and (iii) results,
discussion, summary and conclusion. The main chapters may be
divided into several sections, divisions and sub-divisions. Each
chapter should be given appropriate title. Titles and figures in a
chapter should be placed in the immediate vicinity of the reference
where they are cited.

5.10 Appendices
Appendices are provided to give supplementary information, which
if included in the main text may serve as a distraction and spoil the
central theme of the thesis. Appendices shall be numbered using
Arabic numerals, e.g. Appendix 1, Appendix 2, etc. Tables and
references in appendices should be numbered and referred at
appropriate places just as in the case of chapters. Appendices shall
carry the title of the work reported and the same title shall be
included in the table of contents.
88

5.11 List of References
Any works of other researchers, if used either directly or indirectly,
the origin of the material thus referred to should be indicated at
appropriate places in the thesis. Such references in the form of
research articles, monographs, books, review articles, patents and
proceedings shall be cited in the thesis following the international
standard. A citation should be placed wherever appropriate,
preferably at the end of a sentence. All the citations shall be in the
same font as the main text. The list of references should be typed 4
spaces below the heading “REFERENCES” in single line spacing
using Font style Times New Roman and Font size 13.
5.12 List of Publications
The list of publications (those already published/accepted for
publication
in
journals
and
papers
presented
in
conferences/symposia) made by the research scholar during the
period of research shall be reported in the table of contents.
5.13 Tables and Figures
Table means tabulated data in the body of the thesis as well as in
the appendices. Others such as charts, graphs, maps, photographs
and diagrams may be designated as figures. The table or figure
including caption should be accommodated within the prescribed
margin limits and should appear on the following page where their
first reference is made. All tables and figures should be typed on
the same quality paper used for the preparation of the text of the
thesis. Two or more small tables or figures may be grouped and
typed in a single page, if necessary. Wherever possible, the
photograph(s) shall be reproduced on a full sheet of photographic
paper or standard A4 size paper.
6.

TYPING INSTRUCTIONS

6.1

General: The impressions on the typed/printed copies should be
black in colour. One and a half line spacing should be used for
typing the general text. The general text shall be typed in Font style
Times New Roman and Font size 13. Long tables, long quotations,
foot notes, multiline captions and references should be typed in
single line spacing.

89

6.2

Chapters: The format for typing headings, division headings and
sub-division headings are as follows
Chapter heading

: CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION

Division heading

: 1.1

Sub-division heading

: 1.1.1 Literature Review
1.1.1.1 Romanian views on archeology

OUTLINE OF THESIS

The word CHAPTER without punctuation should be centered 50
mm down from the top of the page. Two spaces below, the title of
the chapter should be typed centrally in capital letters. The text
should commence 4 spaces below this title, the first letter of the
text starting 20 mm inside from the left hand margin.
The division and sub-division captions along with their numbering
should be left justified. The typed material directly below division or
sub-division heading should commence 2 spaces below it and
should start typing 20 mm from the left hand margin. Within
division or sub-division paragraphs are permitted and they should
also commence 3 spaces below the last line of the preceding
paragraph, with offset from the left hand margin by 20 mm.
7.

NUMBERING INSTRUCTIONS

7.1

Page numbering
All page numbers (whether it be in Roman or Arabic numbers)
should be typed without punctuation on the upper right hand
corner 20 mm from the top with the last digit in line with the right
hand margin. The preliminary pages such as title page,
acknowledgement, table of contents,etc. should be numbered in
lower case Roman numerals. Pages of the main text starting with
Chapter 1 should be consecutively numbered using Arabic
numerals till the end of the thesis.

7.2

Numbering of Chapters, divisions and Sub-Divisions
The numbering of chapters, divisions and sub-divisions should be
done using Arabic numerals only and further decimal notation
should be used for numbering the divisions and sub-divisions
within a chapter. For example sub-division 2 under division 4
belonging to chapter 3 should be numbered as 3.2.4. The caption
for the sub-division should immediately follow the number assigned
to it. Appendices, if any, should also be numbered in an identical
manner starting with appendix 1.

90

7.3

Numbering of tables and figures
Tables and figures appearing anywhere in the thesis should have
appropriate numbers. For example, if a Figure in Chapter 4
happens to be fifth, then assign 4.5 to that figure. Similar rules
apply for tables. For example, if a table in chapter 3 happens to be
second, then assign 3.2 to that table. If Figures or Tables appear in
Appendices, then Table 3 in Appendix 1 will be designated as Table
A1.3. Similarly for Figures.

7.4

Numbering of Equations
Equations appearing in each chapter or appendix should be
numbered serially, the numbering should commence afresh for
each chapter or appendix. Thus for example, an equation appearing
in chapter 3, if it happens to be the fourth equation in that chapter
should be numbered as (3.4) thus:
y’ + a(t) y = b(t)

(3.4)

While referring to this equation in the body of the thesis it should
be referred to as equation (3.4).
8.

BINDING SPECIFICATIONS
Thesis side pinning/stitching, covered with wrapper printed on
300 gsm white art card and outer side gloss laminated, adhesive
binding. The cover should be printed in black letters and the text
for printing should be identical to what has been prescribed for the
title page.

91

Annexure I

A typical Specimen of Cover page and Title Page
<Font style Time New Roman>

SELECTIVE CATALYTIC REDUCTION OF NOx ON
NEW CATALYTIC SYSTEMS
<Font Size 18><1.5 line spacing>
A THESIS <Font Size14>
Submitted by <Font Size 14><Italic>

GOVINDARAJAN K R <Font Size 16>

in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the degree of
<Font Size 14><Italic><1.5 line spacing>

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY <Font size 16>

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR608 002 <Font Size 16><1.5 line spacing>
APRIL 2020 <Font Size 14>

92

SELECTIVE CATALYTIC REDUCTION OF NOx ON
NEW CATALYTIC SYSTEMS
A THESIS

Submitted by

GOVINDARAJAN K R

in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the degree of

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
ANNAMALAINAGAR608 002
APRIL 2020

93

Annexure II

UNIVERSITY

ANNAMALAI
Dr. V. VENKATESALU
Professor
Department of Botany

Annamalainagar 608 002
Tamil Nadu, INDIA
Mobile : +91-9842998740
E-mail: venkatesalu@yahoo.com

CERTIFICATE
This

is

to

certify

that

the

thesis

entitled

“ISOLATION

ANDCHARACTERIZATION OF MOSQUITO LARVICIDAL COMPOUND(S)
FROM SOME MEDICINAL PLANTS AGAINST Aedes aegypti, Anopheles
stephensi and Culex quinquefasciatus” is a bonafide record of research
work done by Mr. SOFI IMTIYAZ ALI(Roll No. 1519030011), Research
Scholar, Department of Botany, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar
under my guidance during the period2015-2018,and that this thesis has
not previously formed the basis for the award of any degree, diploma,
associateship, fellowship or other similar title to this candidate or any
other candidate.
This is also to certify that the thesis represents the independent
work of the candidate.

Place :
Date :

(V. VENKATESALU)
Research Supervisor

Annexure III
94

DECLARATION
I,SOFI IMTIYAZ ALI, Research Scholar in the Department of Botany,
declare that the work embodied in this Ph.D. thesis entitled “ISOLATION
ANDCHARACTERIZATION OF MOSQUITO LARVICIDAL COMPOUND(S)
FROM SOME MEDICINAL PLANTS AGAINST Aedes aegypti, Anopheles
stephensi andCulex quinquefasciatus”is the result of my own bonafide work
carried out with my personal effort and submitted by me under the
supervision of Dr. V. VENKATESALU, Professor, Department of Botany,
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar. The contents of this thesis have
not

formed

the

basis

for

the

award

of

any

Degree/Diploma/

Fellowship/Titles in this University or any other University or similar
Institutions of higher learning.
I declare that I have faithfully acknowledged and given credit and
referred to the researchers wherever their works have been cited in the
body of the thesis. I further declare that I have not willfully copied others’
data/work/results, etc. reported in the journals, magazines, books, reports,
dissertations, theses, Internet, etc. and claimed as my own work.

Date:

Signature of the Research Scholar
Roll No.: 1519030011

95

Annexure IV

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
No.

Title
ABSTRACT
LIST OF TABLES
LIST OF FIGURES
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS

1

INTRODUCTION
1.1.

POLLUTION

1.2.

TYPES OF POLLUTION

1.3.

1.4.

1.2.1.

Water Pollution

1.2.2.

Soil Pollution

1.2.3.

Noise Pollution

SOURCES OF AIR POLLUTION
1.3.1.

Natural Sources

1.3.2.

Anthropogenic Sources

EFFECTS OF AIR POLLUTION
1.4.1.

Green Houses Gases

1.4.2.

Indoor Air Quality

1.4.3.

Accidents due to Air Pollutants

1.4.4.

Health Effects
1.4.4.1. Effects on respiratory and
cystic fibrosis
1.4.4.2. Effects on children

1.5.

AIR POLLUTANTS SOURCES AND EFFECTS
1.5.1.

Sources of NOX
1.5.1.1. Thermal NOX
1.5.1.2. Fuel NOX

1.5.2.

Sources of Sulfur Dioxide

96

Page
No.

1.5.2.1. Effects of sulfur dioxide
emissions
1.6.

AUTOMOBILE EXHAUST AND THEIR
EFFECTS
1.6.1.

CI Engine and Emission Control
Techniques

1.6.2.

Basic Operation Principles of CI
Engine

1.6.3.

Various Methods to Reduce
Automobile Pollutants
1.6.3.1. Exhaust gas recirculation
and deNOXsystem
1.6.3.2. Diesel particulate
filters/catalysts
1.6.3.3. Humid air motor system

1.7.

DEFINITION AND CHEMISTRY OF NOX

1.8.

OVERVIEW OF THE EMISSION NORMS IN
INDIA
1.8.1.

Control of Emissions
1.8.1.1. Cleaning up the
emissions

1.9.

CATALYTIC CONVERTERS
1.9.1.

Two-way Catalytic Converters

1.9.2.

Three-way Catalytic Converters
1.9.2.1. Oxygen storage in threeway converters

1.10. COMPONENTS OF A CATALYTIC
CONVERTER
1.10.1. Core or Substrate
1.10.2. Wash Coat
1.11. SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE
PRESENT INVESTIGATION
2

EXPERIMENTAL METHODS
2.1.

MATERIALS AND METHODS
2.1.1.

Materials
97

2.1.2.
2.2.

2.3.

3

3.2.

5

CHARACTERIZATION OF THE PREPARED
CATALYSTS
2.2.1.

X-Ray Diffraction Study

2.2.2.

Nitrogen Adsorption and
Desorption Study

2.2.3.

Electron Paramagnetic Resonance
Spectoscopy

CATALYTIC STUDIES
2.3.1.

Catalytic Reduction of NO with
Acetone

2.3.2.

Catalytic Reduction of NO with
Methane Vapour

COPPER CONTAINING MICROPOROUS H-ZSM-5
ZEOLITE FOR THE REDUCTION OF NOX IN THE
EXHAUST FLUE GAS
3.1.

4

Synthesis of Mesoporous MCM-41

CHARACTERIZATION OF THE PREPARED
CATALYSTS
3.1.1.

X-Ray Diffraction

3.1.2.

Nitrogen Adsorption and
Desorption Study

CATALYTIC REDUCTION OF NOX USING
ACETONE VAPOUR AS THE REDUCING
AGENT

COPPER CONTAINING MESOPOROUS MCM-41
MATERIALS FOR THE REDUCTION OF NOX IN
THE EXHAUST FLUE GAS
4.1.

IMPORTANCE OF MESOPOROUS Cu-MCM41 CATALYSTS

4.2.

CHARACTERIZATION OF MESOPOROUS
CATALYSTS
4.2.1.

X-Ray Diffraction

4.2.2.

Nitrogen Adsorption and
Desorption Study

SUPPORTED CeO2-ZrO2 CATALYSTS FOR THE
SELECTIVE CATALYTIC REDUCTION OF NOX
5.1.

INTRODUCTION
98

5.2.

6

CATALYSTS CHARACTERIZATION
5.2.1.

X-Ray Diffraction

5.2.2.

Nitrogen Adsorption and
Desorption Study

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
REFERENCES
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS

99

Annexure V

LIST OF TABLES
Table
No.

Title

1.1.

Indian emission standards for 4-wheel vehicles

3.1.

Physico-chemical characteristics of the prepared
materials

4.1.

Physico-chemical characteristics of nano and
composite materials

5.1.

BET surface area and crystallite size of the
catalysts

100

Page
No.

Annexure VI

LIST OF FIGURES
Figure

Title

No.
1.1.

Operating cycle for a four-stroke CI engine

1.2.

General composition and typical diesel particle

1.3.

Typical diesel particle size and distribution

2.1.

Schematic representation of the experimental set-up
for the reduction of NOX with acetone vapour

2.2.

Schematic representation of the experimental set-up
for the reduction of NOX with methane vapour

3.1.

XRD patterns of H-ZSM-5

3.2.

XRD patterns of Cu-ZSM-5

3.3.

N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm of H-ZSM-5

4.1.

XRD patterns of MCM-41

4.2.

XRD patterns of Al-MCM-41 (50)

4.3.

XRD patterns of Cu-MCM-41 (50)

5.1.

XRD patterns of (a) CeO2 (b) ZrO2, (c) CeO2-ZrO2, (d)
CeO2-ZrO2/SiO2, (e) CeO2-ZrO2/Al2O3 and (f) CuO/
CeO2-ZrO2

5.2.

Raman Spectra of (a) CeO2-ZrO2/SiO2and (b) CeO2ZrO2/Al2O3

5.3.

TGA and derivative curve of CeO2-ZrO2/Al2O3

101

Page
No.

Annexure VII

LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS
ABBREVIATIONS
AES

–

Atomic Emission Spectroscopy

AIR

–

Air Injection Reactor

BET

–

Brunauer-Emmet-Teller

CFC

–

Choloroflurocarbon

cm3/min

–

Cubic Centimetre per minute

cm3/g

–

Cubic Centimetre per gram

CNG

–

Compressed Natural Gas

DRS UV-Vis –

Diffuse Reflectance Ultraviolet Visible

EDX

–

Energy Dispersive X-Ray

EPR

–

Electron Paramagnetic Resonance

FT-IR

–

Fourier Transform Infra-Red

GC

–

Gas Chromatograph

IUPAC

–

International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry

KHz

–

Kilo Hertz

LPG

–

Liquid Petroleum Gas

m

–

Micrometre
102

nm

–

Nanometre

C

–

Degree Celsius

RT

–

Retention Time

RH

–

Relative Humidity

PCR

–

Polymerase Chain Reaction

UNDP

–

United Nations Development Programme

WTO

–

World Trade Organisation

FRBM

–

Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management

BE

–

Budget Estimate

RE

–

Revised Estimate

103

SYMBOLS


–

Absolute frequency



–

Density of the fluid



–

Direction of wave propagation



–

Frequency of the waves



–

Potential function



–

Alpha

Å

–

Angstrom



–

Beta

%

–

Percentage



–

Surface tension



–

Theta



–

Wavelength



–

Psi

104

