ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY
PART – I PART – II AND PART – III
RULES AND REGULATIONS 2019
This document shall be called as D.Pharm. Academic Regulations - 2019 of Annamalai
University. These academic regulations shall come in to force from the academic year 2019 - 2020.

Rules and Regulations for conducting Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I and Part – II Courses
and examination and Part – III Practical training by Annamalai University and will be called
as “D.Pharm. Academic Regulations 2019 of Annamalai University” They shall come into
effect from the Academic Year 2019-20. The regulations framed are subject to modifications
from time to time by the authorities of the Annamalai University.
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY (PART – I AND PART – II)
1. Minimum qualification for admission to Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I course.
A pass in any of the following examinations with Physics, Chemistry, Biology and
Mathematics.
a. Intermediate examination in Science.
b. The first year of the three year degree course, in Science.
c. 10 + 2 examination (academic stream) in Science.
d. Pre-degree examination; or
e. Any other qualification approved by Annamalai University and the
Pharmacy Council of India as equivalent to any of the above
examinations.
2. Duration course:
The duration of the courses shall be for two academic years, with each
academic year spread over a period of not less than one hundred and eighty
working days in addition to 500 hours practical training spread over a period of
not less than 3 months.
3. Course of Study:
The course of study for Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I and Diploma in
Pharmacy Part – II shall include the subjects as given in the Tables I & II below.
The number of hours devoted to each subject for its teaching in, Theory and
Practical shall not be less than that noted against it in columns 1 and 2 of the
Tables below.

TABLE – I
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY (PART – I)
(A)

(B)

No. of hours
of theory

No. of hours of
practical

Pharmaceutics – I

75

100

Pharmaceutical Chemistry – I

75

75

Pharmacognosy

75

75

Biochemistry & clinical Pathology

50

75

Human anatomy & Physiology

75

50

Health Education & community Pharmacy

50

Subject

total

400

375 = 775

TABLE – II
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY (PART – II)
(A)

(B)

No. of hours
of theory

No. of hours of
practical

Pharmaceutics – II

75

100

Pharmaceutical Chemistry – II

100

75

Pharmacognosy & Toxicology

75

50

Pharmaceutical Jurisprudence

50

…

Drug Store and Business Management

75

…

Hospital and Clinical Pharmacy

75

50

450

275 = 725

Subject

total

4. The syllabus for each subject of study in the said tables shall be as specified in
Appendix A to these regulations.
5. Examinations:
There shall be an examination for Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – 1) to examine
the students of the first year course and an examination for Diploma in
Pharmacy (Part – II) to examine students for the second year course. Each
examination may be held twice in a year. The first examination in a year shall be
supplementary examination of the Diploma in Pharmacy (Part -–I) or Diploma in
Pharmacy (Part – II), as the case may be. The examinations shall be of written
and practical (including oral) nature, carrying maximum marks for each part of a
subject as indicated in table III and IV below:

TABLE – III
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY (PART – I) EXAMINATION
Maximum Marks for Theory

Subject

Maximum Marks for Practical

Examination

Sessional

Total

Examination

Sessional

Total

Pharmaceutics – I

80

20

100

80

20

100

PharmaceuticalChem – I

80

20

100

80

20

100

Pharmacognosy

80

20

100

80

20

100

Biochemistry & Clinical
Pathology

80

20

100

80

20

100

Human Anatomy &
Physiology

80

20

100

80

20

100

Health Education &
Community Pharmacy

80

20

100

…

…

…

600

500

Total

=

1,100

* Internal assessment

TABLE – IV
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY (PART – II) EXAMINATION
Subject

Maximum Marks for Theory

Maximum Marks for Practical

Examination

Sessional

Total

Examination

Sessional

Total

Pharmaceutics – I

80

20

100

80

20

100

Pharma Chem – II

80

20

100

80

20

100

Pharmacology &
Toxicology

80

20

100

80

20

100

Pharmaceutical
Jurisprudence

80

20

100

Drugs Store & Business
Management

80

20

100

Hospital & Clinical
Pharmacy

80

20

100

80

20

100

600
Total

400
=

1,000

* Internal assessment
6. Eligibility for appearing at the Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I Examination:
Only such candidates who produce certificate from the Head of the Inst. of
Pharm. Technology, Annamalai University in proof of his/her having regularly
and satisfactorily undergone the course of study by attending not less than 75%
of the class held both in theory and in practical separately in each subject shall
be eligible for appearing at the Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – I) examination.

7. Eligibility for appearing at the Diploma Pharmacy Part – II Examination:
Only such candidates who produce certificate from the head of the Inst. of
Pharm. Technology, Annamalai University in proof of his her having regularly and
satisfactorily undergone the Diploma in Pharmacy Part – II course by attending
not less than 75% of the classes held both theory and practicals separately in
each subject, shall be eligible for appearing at the Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – II)
examination.
8. a. Teachers are required to maintain attendance of students in Attendance
Register.
8. b. Student Counsellors (Mentors)
To help the students in planning their course of study and for general advise
on the academic programme, the Dean / Head of the Department will attach a
certain number of students to a member of the faculty who shall function as
student counsellor for those students throughout their period of study. Such
student counsellors shall advice the students, give preliminary approval for the
courses to be taken by the students during each semester and obtain the final
approval of the Dean/ Head of the Department.
9. Mode of Examinations:
a. Each theory and practical examination in the subject-mentioned in table – III
& IV shall be of three hours duration.
b. A candidate and who fails in theory or practical examination of a subject
shall re-appear only in theory or practical, of the same subject.
c. Practical examination shall also consist of a viva-voce (oral) examination.
10. Award of Sessional Marks and maintenance of Records.
a. A regular record do both theory and practical class work and examinations
conducted in by Annamalai University for Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I
and Diploma in Pharmacy Part – II courses, shall be maintained for each
student and 20 marks for each theory and 20 marks for each practical
subject shall be allotted as sessionals.
b. There shall be at least three periodic sessional examinations during each
academic year. The highest aggregate of any two performance shall form
the basis of calculating sessional marks.
c. The sessional marks in practicals shall be allotted on the following basis.
Actual performance in the practical sessional examination – 10.
Day to Day assessment in the practical class works – 10.
11. Minimum Marks for passing to examination:
A statement shall not be declared to have passed D.Pharm exam unless
he/she secures at least 40% in each subject separately in theory and practical

exam. However they have declared to have passed the subject (&) in which they
secure more than 40 marks.
The Candidate securing 60% marks or above in aggregate in all subjects in a
single attempt at the Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – I) or Diploma in Pharmacy
(Part – II) examinations shall be declared to have passed in first class the
Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – I) or Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – II) examinations,
as the case may be candidates securing 75% marks or above in any subject or
subjects shall be declared to have passed with distinction in that subject or these
provided he/she passes in all the subjects in a single attempt.
12. Eligibility for promotion to Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – II)
All candidates who have appeared for all the subjects and passed the
Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I Examination are eligible for promotion to the
Diploma in Pharmacy Part – II class. However, failure in more than any two
theory and any two practical papers of D.Pharm first year subjects shall debar
him/her from promotion to the Diploma in Pharmacy Part – II class.
13. Improvement of sessional Marks:
Candidates who wish to improve sessional marks can do so, by appearing in
two additional sessional examinations during the next academic year. The
average score of the two examinations shall be on the basis for improved
sessional marks in theory. The sessional of practicals shall be improved by
appearing in additional practical examinations. Marks awarded to a candidate for
day to day assessment in the practical class, can not be improved unless he/she
attends a regular course of study again.
14. Certificate of passing examination for Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – II)
Certificate for having passed the examination for the Diploma in Pharmacy,
Part – II shall be granted by the Annamalai University to a student after the
successful completion of Part – I and Part – II, respectively.
15. Rule pertaining to the conductance of University theory and practical
examinations for D.Pharmacy Part – I and Part – II of Annamalai University.
As per the existing rules and regulations.
DIPLOMA IN PHARMACY (PART – III)
(PRACTICAL TRAINING)
16. Period and other conditions of Practical training:
a. After having appeared in Part – II examination of Diploma in Pharmacy
conducted by the Annamalai University a candidate shall be eligible to
undergo practical training into one or more of the following Institutions
namely:
i.

Hospitals / Dispensaries run by Central / State Government / Municipal
Corporations / Central Government Health Scheme and Employees State
Insurance Scheme.

ii.

A pharmacy, Chemist and Druggist licensed under the Drugs and
Cosmetic Rules, 1945 made under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, 1940 –
923 of 1940).

iii. Drugs manufacturing Unit licensed under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,
1940 and rules made there under.
b. The Institutions referred in sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible to impart
training subject to the condition that the member of student pharmacists that
may be taken in any hospital Pharmacy, chemist and druggist and Drugs
manufacturing unit licensed under the Drugs manufacturing unit licensed the
Drugs and Cosmetics Rules 1945 made under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,
1940 shall not exceed two where there is one registered pharmacist engaged in
the work in which student pharmacist in which student is under going practical
training, where there is more than one registered pharmacist similarly engaged,
the number shall no, exceed one for each additional such registered pharmacist.
c. Hospital and Dispensary other than those specified in sub religion (1) for the
purpose of giving practical training shall have to be recognised by Pharmacy
Council of India on fulfilling Conditions specified in Appendix D to these
regulations.
d. In the course of practical training, the trainee shall have exposure to.
i.

Working knowledge of keeping of records required by various act as
concerning the profession of Pharmacy and

ii.

Practical experience in
a. The manipulation of Pharmaceutical apparatus in common use.
b. The reading, translation and copying of prescription including checking
of doses;
c. The dispensing of prescriptions illustrating the commoner methods of
administering medicaments and
d. The storage of drugs and medicinal preparations.
e. The practical training shall be not less than five hundred hours spread
over a period of not less than three months, provided that not less than two
hundred and fifty hours are devoted to actual dispensing of prescriptions.

17. Procedure to be followed prior to commencing of the training;
1. The Head of the academic training institution, on application shall in
triplicate issue the ‘Practical Training Contract From for qualification as
Pharmacist’ (herein after referred to as the Contract Form) to candidate
eligible to under-take the said practical training. The Contract Form shall be
as specified in Appendix – E to these regulations.
2. The Head of the academic training institution shall fill section I of the
Contract Form The trainee shall fill section II of the said Contract Form and
the Head of the institution agreeing to impart the training (herein after

referred as the Appendix – C Register) shall fill section III of the said Contract
Form.
3. It shall be the responsibility of the trainee to ensure hat one copy (herein after
referred to as the first copy of the contract form) so filled is submitted to the
Head of the academic training institution and the other two copies (hereinafter
referred to as the second copy and the third copy) shall be filled with the
Apprentice master (if he so desires or with the trainee pending completion of
the training).
18. Certificate of passing Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – III):
On satisfactory completion of apprentice period, the apprentice master shall
fill SECTION IV the second copy and third copy of the contract Form and cause it
to be sent to the head of the academic training institution who shall suitably
enter in the first copy of the entries from the second copy and third copy and
shall fill SECTION V of the three copies of Contract Form there after hand over
both he second copy and third copy to the trainee.
This, if completed in all respects, shall be regarded as a Certificate of having
successfully completed the course of diploma in Pharmacy (Part – III).
19. Certificate of Diploma in Pharmacy
A certificate of Diploma in Pharmacy shall be granted by the Annamalai
University to a successful candidate on producing certificate of having passed
the Diploma in Pharmacy Part – I and Part – II and satisfactory completion of
practical training for Diploma in Pharmacy (Part – III).

20. Transitory Regulations
The University shall have powers to revise or change or amend the regulations, the
scheme of examinations, the course of study and syllabus as and when the statutory
authorities recommend.
APPENDIX – A
SYLLABUS
1.1 PHARMACEUTICS - I
Theory (75 hours)
1. Introduction of different dosage forms their classification with examples their
relative applications Familiarization with new drug delivery systems.
2. Introduction to Pharmacopoeias with special reference to the Indian
Pharmacopoeia.
3. Metrology Systems of Weights and measures Calculation including conversion
from one to another system, system, percentage calculations and adjustment
of products. Use of alligation method in calculations, solutions.

4. Packaging of Pharmaceuticals – Desirable features of a container – types of
containers, Study of glass and plastics as materials for closures – their merits
and demerits introduction of aerosol packaging.
5. Size reduction – Objectives, and factors affecting size reduction, methods of
size reduction – Study of hammer mill, ball mill, fluid energy mill and
Disintegrator.
6. Size separation – Size separation by shifting Official standards for powders
Sedimentation methods of size separation, Construction and working of
Cyclone separator.
7. Mixing and Homogenization-Liquid mixing and powder mixing, Mixing
semisolids. Study of Silverson Mixer-Homogeniser Planetary Mixer Agitated
Powder Mixer, tripie Roller Miller Propeller Mixer, Colloid Mill and Haod
Homogeniser, double cone mixer.
8. Classification and Filtration-Theory of Filtration: filter media Filter aids and
selection of filters. Sutdy of the following separation equipments – Filler press
Sintered Filters Filter Candles. Metafilter.
9. Extraction and Galenicals – (a) Study of parcolation and maceration and their
modifications, continuous hot extraction-Applications in the preparation of
tinctures and extracts (b) Introduction to Ayurvedic dosage forms.
10. Heat processes – Evaporation – Definitions – Factors affecting evaporation
Study of evaporation still and Evaporating pan.
11. Distillation – simple distillation and Fractional Distillation Steam distillation
and vaccum still, preparation of Purified Water I.P. and water for injection I.P.
Construction and working of the still used for the Same.
12. Introduction to drying process – study of Tray Dryers: Fluidized Bed Dryer,
Vaccum Dryer and Freeze Dryer.
13. Sterilization – Concept of sterilization and its differences from disiofection –
Thermal resistance of micro organisms Detailed Study to following
sterilisation processes.
i.

Sterilization with most heat.

ii.

Dry heat sterilization.

iii. Sterilization by radiation.
iv. Sterilization and filtration.
v.

Gaseous Sterilization.

Aseptic techniques – Application of setrilization processes in hospitals with
particular reference to surgical dressings and intravenonus fluids,
precautions for safes and effective handling of sterilization equipment.
14. Processing of Tablets – Definitions; Different types of compressed tablets and
their properties processes involved in the production of tablets; tablets

excipients Defects in tablets; Evalution of Tablets; Physical standards
including Disintegration and Dissolution. Tablet coating Sugar coating; film
coating enteric coating and micro encapsulation (tablet coating may be dealt
in an elementary manner).
15. Processing of capsules – Hard and soft gelatin capsules, different sizes of
capsules; filling of capsules handling and storage of capsules, Special
applications of capsules.
16. Study of immunological products like sera, vaccines toxoids and their
preparations.

PRACTICAL (100 hours)
Preparation (minimum number stated against each) of the following
categories illustrating different techniques involved.
1.

Aromatic waters

3

2.

Solutions

4

3.

Spirts

2

4.

Tinctures

2

5.

Creams

2

6.

Cosmetic preparation

3

7.

Capsules

2

8.

Tablets

2

9.

Preparing involving Sterilization

2

10.

Opthalmic preparations

2

11.

Preparation Involving Aseptic Techniques

2

Books Recommended : (Latest Edition)
1. Remington’s Pharmaceuticals Sciences.
2. The extra Pharmacopoeio – Martindaler.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY – I
Theory ( 75 hours)
1. General discussions on the following inorganic compounds including
important physical and chemical properties, medicinal and pharmaceutical
uses storage conditions and chemical incompatibility.
A. Acids, bases and buffers – Boric acid hydrochloric acid; strong ammonium
hydroxide, calcium hydroxide sodium hydroxide, and offici buffers.
B. Antioxidants-Hypophosphorous acid, Sulpher dioxide, Sodium bisulphate,
Sodium meta bisulphite, Sodium thiosulphate, Nitrogen and Sodium
Nitrite.
C. Gastrointestinal agents
i.

Acidifying agents – Dilute hydrochoric acid

ii. Antacid – Sodium bicarbonate, aluminium hydroxidegel, aluminium
phosphate, calcium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, magnesium
trisilicate, magnesium oxide, combinations of antacid preparations.
iii. Protectives and Adsorbent – Bismuth subcorbonate Kaolin.
iv. Saline cathartics
sulphate.

Sodium

Pottassium

tartate

and

magnesium

D. Topical agents
i.

Protectives-tozic, Zinc Oxide, calamine, Zinc stearate, Titanium
dioxide, Silicon polymers.

ii. Antimicrobials and Astringents-Hydrogen peroxide Pottassium
permanganate. Chlorinated lime, iodine, Solutions of iodine,
Providone-iodine, Boric acid, Borax. Silver nitrate, Mild silver protein,
Mercury, yellow mercurioxide, Ammoniated mercury.
iii. Sulphur and its compounds Sublimed sulphurs, precipitated sulphur,
Selenium sulphide.
iv. Astringents: Alum and Zinc Sulphate.
E. Dental products – Sodium fluoride, stannous fluoride, Calcium carbonate,
sodium metaphosphate, dicalcium phosphate, Strontium chloride, Zinc
chloride.
F. Inhalants – Oxygen, Carbon dioxide, Nitous oxide.
G. Respiratory stimulants – Ammonium carbonate.
H. Expectorants and Emetics – Ammonium chloride, Potassium iodide,
Antimony Potassium tartrate.
1. Antidotes – Sodium nitrite
2. Major Intra and Extracellular eletrolyes.
A. Electrolytes used for replacement therapy-Sodium chloride and its
preparatioins, Potassium chloride and its preparations.
B. Physiological acid base balance and electrolytes used Sodium acetate,
Potassium acetate, Sodium bicarbonate injection, Sodium citrate,
Potassium citrate, Sodium lactate injection, Ammonium chloride and its
injection.
C. Combination of oral electrolyte powders and solutions.
3. Inorganic Official compounds of Iron Iodine, and Calcium Ferrous Sulfate and
calcium gluconate.
4. Radio pharmaceuticals and Contrast media – Radio activity – Alpha, Beta and
Gamma Radiations, Biological effects of raditions, Measurement of radio
activity G.M. Counter – Rdio Isotopes – their uses storage and precautions
with special reference to the official preparations.
Radio opaque Contrast media-Barium sulphate.
5. Quality control of Drugs and Pharmaceuticals importance of quality control,
Significant errors, methods used for quality control, sources of impurities in
Pharmaceuticals, Limit tests for Arsenic, chloride, sulfate, Iron and Heavy
metals.
6. Identification tests for cations and anions as per Indian Pharmacopoeia.

PRACTICAL (75 hours)
1.

Identification test
pharmaceuticals.

for

organic

compounds

particularly

drugs

and

2.

Limit test for chloride, sulfate Arsenic, Iron and heavy metals.

3.

Assay of inorganic Pharmaceuticals involving each of the following methods
of compounds marked with (*) under theory.
a. Acid – Base titrations (atleast 3).
b. Redox titrations (one each permanganometry and iodimetry).
c. Precipitation titrations (atleast 2).
d. Complexometric titrations (calcium and Magnesium).
Books recommended (latest editions).
1. Indian pharmacopoeia.
1.3 PHARMACOGNOSY
Theory (75 hours)

1. Defintion history and scope of Pharmacognosy including indigenous system of
medicine.
2. Various systems of classification of drugs of natural origin.
3. Adulteration and drug evaluation significance of Pharmacopocial standards.
4. Brief outline of occurrence, distribution outline of isolation, identification
tests, therapeutic effects and Pharmaceutical applications of alkaloids,
terpenoids, glycosides, volatile oils, tannins and resins.
5. Occurrence, distribution, Organoleptic evaluation, chemical constitutents
includng tests whereever applicable and therapeutic efficacy of following
categories of drugs.
a. Laxatives Aloes, Rhubarb, Castor oil, Ispaghulla, Senna.
b. Cardiotonics – Digitalis, Arjuna.
c. Carminatives & G.I. regulators – Umbelliferous fruits. Coriander, Fennel,
Ajowan, cardamom, Ginger, Black pepper, Asafoetida, Nutmeg, Cinnamon,
Clove.
d. Astringents – catechu.
e. Drug acting on nervous system – Hyoscyamus Belladonna, Acconite,
Ashwagandha, Ephedra, Opium, Cannabis, Nux vomica.
f. Antihypertensives – Rauwolfia.
g. Antitussives – Vasaka. Tolu balsam, Tulsi.
h. Antirheumatics – Guggul, Colchicum.
i.

Antitumour – Vinca

j.

Antileprotics – Chaulmoogra Oil.

k. Antidiabetics – Pterocorups, Gymnema, yivestris.
l.

Diuretics – Gokhru, Punarnava.

m. Antidysenterics – Ipecauanha.
n. Antiseptics and disinfectants; Benzoin, Myrrh Neem, curcuma.
o. Antimalarials – cinchona.
p. Oxytocios – Ergot.
q. Vitamines – Shark liver Oil and Amla
r. Enzymes-papaya,a diastase, Yeast
s. Perfumes and flavouring agents-pepermint Oil, Lemon Oil, Orange Oil,
Lemon grass Oil, Sandal wood oil.
t. Pharmaceutical aids – Honey, Arachis Oil, Starch, Kaolin, Pectin, Olive oil,
Laonlin, Beeswax, Acacia, Tragacanth, Sodium alginate, Agar, Guar gum,
gelatin.
u. Miscellaneous – Liguorice, Garlic Picrorhiza, discores, Linseed, Shatavari,
Shankhpushpi, Pyrethrums, Tobacco.
6. Collection and preparation of crude drugs for the marker as examplified by
ergot, opium, Rauwolfia, Digitalis, Senna.
7. Study of source, preparation and identification of fibres used in suture and
surgical dressing – cotton, silk, wool and recognised fibres.
8. Gross anatomical studies of – Senna, Datura, Cinnamon, Cinchona, fennel,
Clove, Ginger, Nuxvomica & Ipecacuanha.
PRACTICAL (75 hours)
1. Identification of drugs by morphological characters.
2. Physical and chemical tests for evaluation of drugs wherever applicable.
3. Gross anatomical studies (t.s) of the following drugs Senna, Datura,
Cinnomon, Cinchona, Coriander, Fennel, Clove, Ginger, Nuxvomica,
Ipecacuanha.
4. Identification of fibres and surigacl dressings.
1.4 BIOCHEMISTRY AND CLINICAL PATHOLOGY
Theory (50 hours)
1. Introduction to Biochemistry.
2. Brief chemistry and role of proteins, polypeptides and amino acids.
Classification, Qualitative tests, Biological value Deficiency diseases.
3. Brief Chemistry and role of Carbohydrates, Classification, qualitative tests,
Diseases related to carbohydrate metabolism.

4. Brief chemistry and role of Lipids, Classification, qualitative tests, Diseases
related, lipids metabolism.
5. Brief Chemistry and role of vitamins and Bioenzymes.
6. Role of minerals and water in life processes.
7. Enzymes; Brief concept of enzymic action. Factors affecting it. Thereapeutic
and Pharmaceutical importance.
8. Brief concept of normal and abnormal metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates
and lipids.
9. Introductions to pathology of blood and urine.
a. Lymphocytes and Platelets, their role in health and disease.
b. Erythrocytes – Abnormal cells and their significance.
c. Abnormal constituents of urine and their significance in diseases.
PRACTICAL (75 hours)
1. Detection and identification of Proteins, Amino acids, Carbohydrates and
Lipids.
2. Analysis of normal and abnormal constituents of Blood and Urine (Glucose,
Urea, Creatine, Creatinine, cholesterol alkaline phosphatase, acid
phosphatase, Bilirubin SGPT, SGOT, Calcium Diastase, Lipase).
3. Examination of sputum and faec (microscopic & staining).
4. Practice in injecting drugs by intramuscular, subcutaneous and intravenous
routes, withdrawal of blood samples.
1.5 HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
Theory (75 hours)
1. Scope of Anatomy and Physiology. Definition of various terms used in
Anatomy.
2. Structure of cell, function of its components with special reference to
mitochondrium microsomes.
3. Elementary tissues of the body i.e. epithelial tissue musclar tissue, and
nervous tissue.
4. Structure and functions of skeleton. Classification of joints and their of
functions, join disorders.
5. Composition of blood, functions of blood elements, Blood group and
coagulation of blood. Brief information regarding disorders of blood.
6. Name and functions of lymph glands.
7. Structure and functions of various part of the heart, Arterial and venous
system with special reference to the names and positions of main arteries and

veins. Blood presure and its recording. Brief information about cardiovascular
disorders.
8. Various parts of respiratory system and their functions, Physiology of
respiration.
9. Various parts of urinary system and their functions, structure and functions
of kidney, physiology of urine formation, pathophysiology of renal diseases
and oedema.
10. Structure of skeletal muscle. Physiology of muscle contraction, names
positions attachments and functions of various skeletal muscles. Physiology
of neuromusuclar junction.
11. Various parts of central nervous system, brain and its parts, functions and
reflex action. Anatomy and Physiology of autonomic nervous system.
12. Elementary knowledge of structure and functions of the organs of taste, ear,
eye and skin. Physiology of pain.
13. Digestive system, names of the various part of digestive system and their
functions. Structure and functions of liver, physiology of digestion and
absorption.
14. Endocrine glands and Hormones. Location of the glands their hormones and
functions. Pituitary, Thyroid, Adrenal and pancreas.
15. Reproductive system, physiology and Anatomy of Reproductive system.
PRACTICAL (50 hours)
1. Study of the human skeleton.
2. Study with the help of charts and models of the following systems and organs.
a. Digestive system.
b. Respiratory system.
c. Cardiovascular system.
d. Urinary system.
e. Eye.
f. Ear.
3. Microscopic examination of epithelial tissue, cardiac muscle, smooth muscle,
skeletal muscle, Connective tissue and nervous tissues.
4. Examination of blood films for TLC, DLC and malarial parasite.
5. Determination of clotting times of blood, erthyrocyte sedimentation rate of
Hemoglobin value.
6. Recording or body temperature, pulse, heart rate, blood pressre and ECG.

1.6 HEALTH EDUCATION AND COMMUNITY PHARMACY
Theory (50 hours)
1. Concept of health – Definition of Physical Health, mental health, social health
– determinants of health, indicators of health, concept of disease, natural
history of diseases, the disease agents, concept of prevention of diseases.
2. Nutrition and health – classification of foods, requirements, disease induced
due to deficiency of proteins, Vitamine, and Minerals-treatment and
prevention.
3. Demography and family planning – demography cycle, fertility, family
planning, contraceptive method, behavioural methods, natural family
planning method, chemical method, mechanical methods, hormonal
contraceptives, population Problem of India.
4. First aid-Emergency treatment on shock, snake-bite burns poisoning, heart
disease, fractures and resucitation methods, elements of monor surgery and
dressings.
5. Environment and health-Sources of water supply, water pollution, purification
of water, health and air, noise, light-solid waste disposal and control, medical
entomology. Arthropod borne diseases and their control, rodents, animals and
diseases.
6. Fundamental principles of microbiology – classification or microbes, isolation,
staining techniques of organisms of common diseases.
7. Communicable diseases – Causative agents, mode of transmission and
prevention.
a. Respiratory infection – Chicken pox. measles, influenza, diphtheria,
whooping cough and tuberculosis.
b. Intestinal infections, Poliomyelitis, Hepatitis, Cholera, Typhoid, Food
poisoning, Hookworm infection.
c. Arthropod born infection – Plague, Malaria, Filariasis.
d. Surface infection Rabies, Trachoma, Tetanus Leprosy.
e. Sexually transmitted diseases – Syphillis, Gonorthoea, AIDS.
8. Non Communicable disease-Causative agents, care and control of cancer,
diabetes, Blindness, Cardiovascular disease.
9. Epldimiology-its scope, methods, uses, dynamics of disease transmission
immunization. Immunological products and their dose schedule. Principles of
disease control and prevention, hospital acquired/ infection, prevention and
control Disinfection types of disinfection, disinfection procedures, for faeces,
urine, sputum, roomlinen, dead bodies instruments.

2.1 PHARMACEUTICS - II
Theory (75 hours)
Dispensing Pharmacy:
i.

Prescriptions – reading and understanding of prescriptions. Latin terms
commonly used (Detailed study is not necessary), Modern methods of
prescribing of metric system. Calculation involved in dispensing.

ii.

Incompatibilities in Prescription – Study of various types incompatibilitiesphysical, chemical and therapeutic.

iii. Posology-Dose and dosage of drugs. Factories influencing dose. Calculation
of doses on the basis of age, sex, and surface area. Veterinary doses.

Dispensing Medications:
(Note A detailed study of the following dispensed medication is necessary.
Methods of preparation with theoretical and practical aspects, use of appropriate
containers and closures, Special tabelling requirements and storage conditions
should be high-lighted).
i.

Powders-Types of Powders-Advantages and disadvantages of Powders,
granules, canchets and tablet triturates, preparation of different types of
powders encountered in prescription Weighing methods, possible erros in
weighing, minimum weighable amounts and weighing, of a material below
the minimum weighable amount, geometric dilution and proper usage and
care of dispensing balance.

ii.

Liquid Oral Dossage forms:
a. Monophasic – Theoretical aspects including commonly used vehicles,
essential adjuvant, stabilizers, colourants and flavours, with examples.

Review of the following monophasic liquids with details of formulation and
practical methods.
Liquids for internal administration

Liquids for external administration or
used on muous membrances

Mixture and Concetrates Syrups

Gargles, Mouth waslies, Throat paints.

Elixirs

Douches Ear Drops Nasal Drops &
Sprays Liniments, Lotions.

b. Biphasic Liquid Forms:
i.

Suspensions (elementary study) – Suspensions containing diffusiable
solids and liquids and their preparation, Study of the adjuvants used
like thickening agents. Wetting agents, their necessity and quantity to
be incorporated, Suspensions of precipitate forming liquids like
tinctures, their preparations and stability, Suspensions produced by
chemical reaction. An introduction to flocculated non-flocculated
suspension system.

ii. Emulsion – Types of emulsion, identification of emulsion systems
formulation of emulsion, selection of emulsifying agents, Instabilities,
in emulsion. Preservation of emulsion.
iii. Semi-Solid Dosage Forms:
a. Ointments-Types of ointments, classification and selection of
dermatological vehicles, preparation and stability of ointments by
the following processes:
i. Trituration ii. Fusion iii. Chemical reaction iv. Emulsification.
b. Pastes – Differences between ointments and pastes, bases of
pastes, preparation of pastes and their preservation.
c. Jellies – An introduction to the different types of jellies.
d. An elementary study of popultice.
e. Suppositories and pessaries – Their relatives merits and demerits,
types of suppositories, suppository bases, classification,
properties, preparation and packing of suppositories. Use of
suppositories for drug – absorption.
iv. Dental Cosmetics preparation :
Introduction to Dentrifices, Facial cosmetics,
Antiperspirants, Shampoos, hair dressing and hair removers.

Deodorants,

v. Sterile Dosage Forms:
a.

Parenteral dosage forms – Definition, General requirments for
parenteral dosage forms. Types of parenteral formulations,
vehicles, adjuvants, processing personnel, facilities and quality
control Preparation of Intravenous fluids and admixtures total
parenteral nutrition, Dialysia fluids.

b.

Sterility testing particulate matter monitoring – faculty seals –
packaging.

c.

Ophthalmic products – study of essential characteristics of
different opthalmic preparations formulation additives special
precautions in handling and storage of opthalmic products.
PRACTICAL (100 hours)

Dispensing of atleast 100 products covering a wide range of preparations
such as mixtures, emulsion, lotions, liniments, E.N.T. preparations, ointments,
Suppositories, powders, incompatible prescriptions etc.
Books recommended (latest editions)
1. Indian Pharmacopoeia.
2. British pharmacopoeia.
3. National Formularies (N.F.I.B.N.F.).

4. Remington’s Pharmaceutical Sciences.
5. Martindale’s Extra Pharmacopoeia.

2.2 PHARMACEUTICALS CHEMISTRY - II
Theory (100 hours)
1. Introduction to the nomenclature of organic chemical systems with particular
reference to hetero-cyclic system containing upto 3 rings.
2. The chemistry of following Pharmaceuticals organic compounds, covering
their nomenclature, chemical structures, uses and the important physical and
chemical properties, (chemical) structure of only those compounds marked
with asterik (*).
The stability and storage conditions and the different type of Pharmaceutical
formulations of these drugs and their popular brand names.
Antiseptics and Disinfectants-Proflavine*, Benzakonium chloride, Cetrimide,
Chloro cresol*, Chloroxyene, Formaldehyde solution, Hexachlorophene, Liquid
phenol, Nitro furantion. Sulfathiaxzole, Succinyl Sulfathiazole, Sulfadimethozine,
Sulfamethoxy pyridazine, Sulfa methoxazole, co-trimoxazole Sulfacetamide.
Antileprotic Drugs – clofazimine, Thiambutosine, Dapsene, Solapsone – Anti
tubercular Drugs – Isoniazid* Pas*, Streptomycin, Rifampicin, Ethambutol,
Thiacetazone, Ethionmide, Cycloserine, Pyrazinamide.
Antiamoebic and Anthelmintic Drugs – Emetine, Metronidazle, Halogenated,
hydroxyquinolines, diloxanide furoate paramomycin, Piperazine, Mebendazole
D.E.C.
Antibiotics- Benzyl Pencillin, Phenoxy methyl Pencillin, Benzathine Pencillin,
Ampicillin, Cloxacillin Carbenicillin, Gentamycin, Neomycin, Erytromycin,
Tetracycline,
Cephalexin,
Cephaloridine,
Cephalothin,
Griseofulvin,
Chloramphenicol.
Antifungal
Hamycin.

agents-Undocylenic

acid,

tolnaftate,

Nystatin,

Amphoterecin,

Antimalarial Drugs – Chloroquine, Amodiaquine, Primaquine,
Pyrimethamine, Quinine, Trimethoprim.

Proguanil,

Transquilizers: Chlorpromazine, Prochlor Perazine, Trifluo Perazine, friothizene,
Haloperidol,
Triperodol,
Oxypertine,
Chlorodiazeperoxodem
Diazepam,
Lorazepam, Meprobamate.
Hypnotics: - Phenobarbitone, Butabarbitone, Cyclobarbitone
Glutethimide, Methyprylon, paraldehyde, Triclofossodium.

Nitrozepam,

General Anaesthetics – Halothane, Cyclopropance, Diethyl ether, methohexital
sodium. Thiopental sodium, Trichoro ethylene Antidepressant Drugs –
Amitriptyline. Nortryptyline, Imipramine, Phenezine, tranylcypromine.

Analeptics-theophyline, caffeine, Coramine, Dextro amphetamine, Adrenergic
Drugs-Adrenaline Nordreanline, Isoprenaline, Phenylephrine, Salbutamol,
Terbutra-line, Emphedrine, Psedudo ephedrine. Adrenergic Antagonist Tolazoline,
Propranolol,
Practolal,
Cholinergic
Drugs-Neostigmie,
Pyridostigmine,
Pralidoxime, Pilocarpine Physiostigmine.
Cholinergic Antagonists Atropine, Hyoscine,
benztropine. Tropicamide, Biperidone.

Homatropine

Propantheline,

Diuretic Drugs-Furosimide, Chlorthiazide, Hydrochlorthiazide, Benzthiazide,
Urea, Mannitol, Ethacrynic-acid.
Cariovascular Drugs – Ethyl nitrite,
Guanethidine Clofibrate Quinidine.

Glyceryl

trinitrate

Aphamethydopa,

Hypoglycemie Agents-Insulin, Chlorpropamide. Tolbutamide Glibeneclamide,
Phenformin, Metformin.
Coagulants
and
AntiCoagulants-heparin,
Bishydroxycoumarin. Warfarin sodium.

Thrombin,

Menadione,

Local anethetics – Lignocaine, Procaineo, Benovacaine Histamine, Promethazine,
Cyprohepataine, Mepyramine, Pheniramine, Chlorpheniramine. Analgesics and
Antipyretics-Morphine. Pethidine, Codeine, Aspirin, paracetamol, analgin
Dextropropoxyphene, Pentazocine, Non-steriodal anti inflammatory Agents
indomethacin, Phenylbutazone Oxyphen butazone, Ibuprofen.
Thyrosxine and
Propylthiouracil.

Antithyroids-Thyroxine,

Methimazole.

Methyl

thiouracil

Diagnostic agents Ipoanic Acid. Propyliodone, Sulfsbromophthalein Sodium, It
disotindisulfonate sodium (indigo Carmine) Evans blue, Congo Red Fluorescein
Sodium.
Anticonvulsants,
vitamins.

cardiac

glycosides,

Antiarrhythmic

antihypertensives

&

Steroidal Drug – Betamethazone, Cortisone, Hydro cortisone, Prednisolone,
Progestorone, testosterone, Oestradiol, nandralone. Anti-Neoplastic DrugsActinomycins,
Azathiopine.
Busulphan,
Chlorambucil,
Cisplatin,
cyclophosphamide Daunorubicin, Hydrochloride, fluorouracil, Mercaptopurine
Methorexate, Mytomycin.
Books recommended [Latest Editions:]
1. Pharmacopoeia of India.
2. British Pharmaceutical Codex.
3. Martindale’s Extra Pharmacopoeia.

PRACTICAL (75 hours)
1.

Systematic qualitative testing of organic drugs involving solubility
determination, melting point and/ or boiling point. Detection of elements and
functional groups (10 compounds).

2.

Official identification tests for certain groups of drugs included in the I.P. like
barbiturates, sulfnaomides, phenothianies, Antibiotics etc. (8 compound).

3.

Preparation of three of simple organic preparations.
2.3 PHARMACOLOGY & TOXICOLOGY
Theory (75 hours)

1. Introduction to Pharmacology, scope of Pharmacology.
2. Routes of administration of drugs, their advantages and disadvantages.
3. Various a processes of absorption of drugs and the factors affecting them
Metabolism, distribution and excretion of drugs.
4. General mechanism of drugs action and the factors which modify drug action.
5. Pharmacological classification of drugs. The discussion of drug should
emphasise the following aspects.
Drug acting on the Central Nervous system:
a) General anaesthetics, adjuncts to anaesthesia, intravenous anaesthetics.
b) Analgesic and non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Narcotic analgesics.
Antirheumatic and antigout remedies Sedatives and Hypnotics, Psycho
pharmacological agents, anti convulsants, analeptics.
c) Neurone blockers and ganglion blockers.
d) Neuromuscular blockers, drugs used in myasthenia gravis.
iv) Drugs acting on eye. Mydriatics, drugs used in glaucoma.
v) Drugs acting on respiratory system respirator stimulants Bronchodilators,
nasal decongestant. expectorants and Antitussive agents.
vi) Antacids, physiological role of histamine and serotonin, histamine and
Antihistamines, Prostaglandins.
vii) Cardio Vascular Drugs Cardiotenics, Antiarhythmic agents, Antianginal
agents, Antihypertensive agents, Peripheral Vasodilators and drugs used in
atherosclerosis.
viii) Drugs acting on the blood and blood forming organs Haematincs,
coagulants and anticoagulants, Heamostatics, Blood substitutes and plasma
expanders.
ix) Drugs effecting renal function Diuretics and antidiuretics.
x) Hormons and hormone antagonists Hypoglycemic agents, Anitithyroid drugs,
sex harmone and oral contraceptives corticosteroids.

6. Chemotherapy of microbial disease Urinary antiseptics, Sulphonamides,
Penicilins, Streptomycin Tetracyclines and other antibiotics, Antitubercular
agents, Antifungal agents, autiviral drugs antileprotic drugs.
7. Chemotherapy of protozoal diseases Anthelminti drugs.
8. Chemotheraphy of cancer.
9. Disinfectants and antiseptics. A detailed study of the action of drugs on each
organ is not necessary.
PHARMACOLOGY
PRACTICAL (50 hours)
The first six of the following experiments will be done by the students while
the remaining will be demonstrated by the teacher.
1. Effect of K+, Ca++, acetyl choline and adrenaline on frog’s heart.
2. Effect of acetyl choline on rectus abdominis muscle of Frog and guinea
pig ileum.
3. Effect of spasmogens and relaxants on rabbits intestine.
4. Effect of local anaesthetics on rabbit cornea.
5. Effect of mydriatics and miotics on rabbits cornea.
6. To study the action of strychinine on frog.
7. Effect of hyphnotics in mice.
8. Effect of digitalis on frog’s heart.
9. Effect of convulsants and anti convulsant in mice and rats.
10. Test for pyrogens.
11. Taming and potentiating of hypnosis effecting of chloripromazine in
mice/rats.
12. Effect of diphenhydraomine in experimentally produced asthma in guinea
pigs.
2.4 PHARMACEUTICALS JURISPRUDENCE
Theory (50 hours)
1. Origin and nature of Pharmaceutical legislation in India its scope and
objectives. Evolution of the Concept of Pharmacy as an integral part of the
health care system.
2. Principle and significance of Professional Ethics, Clinical study of the code of
Pharmaceutical Ethics drafted by Pharmacy Council of India.
3. Pharmacy Act 1948 The general study of the Pharmacy Act with special
reference to education Regulation working of State and Central Councils,
constitution of these councils and functions. Registration procedures under
the Act.

4. The drugs and Cosmetic Act, 1940 – General Study of the Drugs and
Cosmetics Act and the Rules thereunder definition and salient features
related to retail and whole sale distribution of drugs. The powers of
Inspectors, the sampling procedures and the procedure and formalities in
obtaining licences under the rule. Facilities to be provided for running a
pharmacy effectively. General study of the schedules with special reference to
schedules C, C, F, C, U, H, P and X and salient features labelling and storage
conditions of drugs.
5. The drugs and magic remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Act 1954 –
General study of the Act Objectives, special reference to be laid on
Advertisement. Magic remedies and objectionable and permitted
advertisements diseases which cannot be clamied to be cured.
6. Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985 – A brief study of the
act with special reference to its objectives offences and punishment.
7. Brief introduction to the study of the following acts.
1. Latest Drugs (Price Control Order in force).
2. Poisons Act 1919 (as amended to date).
3. Medicinal and Toilet Preparation (Excise Duties) Act, 1955 (As amended to
date).
4. Medical Termination of preganancy Act. 1971 (as amended to date).
Books Recommended (Latest edition):
Bare Acts of the said laws published by the Government.
2.5 DRUG STORE AND BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
Theory (75 hours)
Part – I Commerce (50 hours)
1. Introduction – Trade, Industry and commerce, Functions and subdivision of
Commerce. Introduction to Elements of Economics and Management.
2. Forms of Business Organisations.
3. Channels of Distribution.
4. Drug House Management-selection of Site, Space lay-out and legal
requirement Importance and Objectives of purchasing, selection of supliers,
credit information, tenders Contracts, and Price determination. And legal
requriements there to. Codification, handling of drug stores and other
hospitals supplies.
5. Inventory Control – Objects and importance, Modern techniques like ABC,
VED analysis, the lead time, inventory carrying cost. Safety stock, minimum
and maximum stock levels, economic order quantity scrap and surplus
disposal.

6. Sales Promotion Market Research, Salesmanship qualities
Advertising and compensation of the pharmacist.

of a salesman,

7. Recruitment, training, evaluation and compensation of the pharmacist.
8. Banking and Finance – Service and functions of banks, Finance planning and
sources of finance.
PART – II ACCOUNTANCY (25 hours)
1. Introduction to the accounting concepts and conventions, Double entry, Book
keeping Different kinds of accounts.
2. Cash Book.
3. General Ledger and Trail balance Sheet.
4. Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet.
5. Simple techniques
Budgetting.

of

analysing

financial

statements.

Introduction

to

Books Recommended (Latest Edition)
1. Remington Pharmaceuticals Sciences.
2.6 HOSPITAL AND CLINICAL PHARMACY
Theory (75 hours)
1. Part – I Hospital Pharmacy.
1. Hospital Definition, Function Classifications based on various criteria,
organisation. Management and health delivery system in India.
2. Hospital Pharmacy:
a) Definition.
b) Functions and objectives of Hospital
c) Location, layout Flow chart of materials and men.
d) Personnel and facilities requirements including equipments based on
individual and basic needs.
e) Requirements and abilities required for Hospital Pharmacists.
3. Drug Distribution System in Hospitals:
a) Out-patient services.
b) In-patrent services: a) types of services, b) detailed discussion of Unit
Dose systems Floor ward stock system, Satelite pharmacy services,
Control sterile services, Bed Side pharmacy.
4. Manufacturing:
a) Economical considerations, estimation of demand.
b) Sterile manufacture large and small volume parenterals, facilities,
requirements, layout, Production planin, man-power requirements.

c) Non-sterile manufacture Liquid orals, externals, Bulk concentrates.
d) Procurement of stores and testing of raw materials.
5. Nomenclature and uses of surgical Instruments and hospital Equipments add
health accessories.
6. P.T.C. (Pharmacy & Therapeutic Committee) Hospital Formularly System and
their organisations, functioning Composition.
7. Drug Information services and Drug Information Bulletin.
8. Surgical dressing like cotton, gauze bandages and adhesive tapes including
their phatmacopoeia tests for quality. Other hospital supply eg. I.V. sets, B.G.
sets Rails tubes, Catheters, Syrings etc.
9. Application of computer in Maintenance of records inventory control,
Modification, monitoring, drug information and data storage and retrieval in
hospitals and retails pharmacy establishments.
Part – II: Clinical Pharmacy:
1. Introduction to Clinical Pharmacy, Practies, Definition, scope.
2. Modern dispensing aspects, Pharmacists and patient councelling and advice
for the use of common drugs, medication history.
3. Common daily terminology used in the practice of Medicine.
4. Disease manifestations and pathophysiology including salient symptoms to
understand the disease like Tuberculosis Hepatitis, Rheumatoid Arthritis,
Cardio-Vascular diseases Epilepsy. Diabetes, Peptic Ulcer, Hypertension.
5. Physiological parameters with their significance.
6. Drug Interactions:
a) Definition and introduction.
b) Mechanism of Drug interaction.
c) Drug-drug interaction with reference to analegics, diuretics caridio
vascular drugs, Gas trointestinal agent.
d) Drug-food interaction.
7. Adverse Drug Reactions:
a) Reactions and significance.
b) Drug-induced diseases and Teratogeniciry.
8. Drug in Clinical Toxicity – Introduction general, treatment of poisoning,
systematic antodotes, Treatment of insecticide poisoning heavy poison,
Narcotic drug, Barbiturate, Organophosphours poisons.
9. Drug dependents
complications.

Drug

abuse,

addictive

drugs

10. Bio availability of drugs, including factors affecting it

and

their

treatment

Books Recommended: (Latest Edition).
1. Remington’s Pharmaceutical Sciences.
2. Martindale’s Extra Pharmacopaeis
PRACTICAL (50 hours)
1. Preparation of transfusion fluids.
2. Testing raw materials used in (1)
3. Evaluation of surgical dressings.
4. Sterilization of surgical instruments, glass-ware and other hospital supplies.
5. Handling and use of data processing equipments.

APPENDIX – B
(See Regulation 21(1))
PRACTICAL TRAINING CONTRACT FORM FOR PHARMACISTS
SECTION - I
This form has been issued ……………………………………………………… (Name
of student pharmacist) son of / daughter of ………………………………………………
residing at ……………………………………………………………………… who has
produced evidence before me that he/she is entitiled to receive the practical
training as set out in the Education regulation framed under section 10 of the
Pharmacy Act. 1948.
The Head of the Academic
Training Institution
Date:
SECTION - II
I ………………………………………………………………… accept (Name of the
student Pharmacist) …………………………………… (of) …………………………………
(Name of the Apprentice Master) (Name of the Institution) ……………………………..
Hospital or Pharmacy as my Apprentice master for the above training and agree
to obey and respect him / her during entire period of my training.
……………………………….
Student Pharmacist
SECTION - II
1. ……………………………………………………………………………. (Name of the
apprentice master) …………………………………………………… (Name of the
Student Pharmacist) trainee and I agree to give him / her training facilities in my
organisation so that during his / her training he / she may acquire:
1. Working knowledge of keeping of records required by the various Acts
affecting the profession of pharmacy and
2. Practical experience in:
a) The manipulation of pharmaceutical apparatus in common use.
b) The reading translation and copying of prescriptions including the
checking of doses.
c) The dispensing of prescriptions illustrating the commoner methods of
administering medicaments and
d) The storage of drugs and medicinal preparations. I also agree that a
Registered Pharmacist shall be assigned his / her guidance.
(Apprentice Master)
(Name and address of the Institution)

SECTION - IV
I certify that …………………………………………………………… (Name of the
Student Pharmacist) has undergone ……………………………………………… hours
training spread over ……………………………… months in accordance with the
details enumerated in SECTION III.
……………………………
Head of the Organisation or
(Pharmaceutical Division)
SECTION - V
I certify that ………………………………………………. (Name of Student
Pharmacist) has completed in all respect his practical training under regulation
20 of the Education Regulations framed under section 10 of the Pharmacy Act,
1948. He had his practical training in an Institution approved by the Pharmacy
Council India.
……………………………………
(Head of the Academic Institution)
Date:
Books Recommended:
PHARMACEUTICS – I & PHARMACEUTICS - II
1. Mithal T.B. Pharmaceutical formation.
2. The Pharmacopoeia of India.
3. National formularly.
4. Remington’s Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Co.
5. United States Pharmacopoeia.
6. Cooper and Gunn’s dispensing for Pharmaceutical Students, Pitaman
Publishing House.
7. British Pharmaceutical Codex.
8. The British Pharmacopoeia.
9. Extra Pharmacopoeia. Martindale.
10. Cooper and Gunn: “Tutorial Pharmacy”
11. “Professional Pharmacy” Part ii, Schroff.

Pharmaceutical Jurisprudance
1. “Code of Pharmaceutical Ethics – PCI, New Delhi.
2. Mithal B.M. “A.T.B. of Forensic Pharmacy”.

Hospital and clinical Pharmacy
1. Hospital Pharmacy, William E. Hassan Lea febiger
2. Mirrors “Hospital Pharmacy”
3. “Clinical Pharmacy Practice” Blissed Webb & Stanaszech.
4. “Clinical Pharmacy & therapeutics Herfinald & Hirachmen Williams & Wilken.

Pharmaceutical Chemistry – I
1. L.M. Atherdon, “Bentaley and Driver’s T.B. of Pharmaceutical Chemistry”
Oxford University Press.
2. I.P., B.P. and U.S.P.
3. Block, Roche and Wilson “Inorganic Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Lea and Febiged.
4. Beckett and Stenleke “Pharmaceutical Chemistry”.

Pharmaceutical Chemistry – II
1. L.M. Atherden “Bentley and Driver’s T.B. of Pharmaceutical Chemistry”
Oxford University Press.
2. I.P. and B.P.
3. B.P.C.
4. Wilson, Gisvold and Doerge. T.B. of organic medical and Pharmaceutical
Chemistry.

Pharmacognosy
1. T.E. Wallies, T.B. of Pharmacognosy, A. Churchill & Co.
2. C.E. Trease “T.B. of Pharmacognosy balliers Tindal & Co.
3. T.E. Wallis, “Practical Pharmacognosy”.
4. Shah, C.S. & Quardy. J.S.A.T.B. of Pharmacognosy M/s. B.S. Shah, 1183
Panore Road, Ahemedabad.

Bio-Chemistry
1. Ambnika Shanmugam, “T.B. of Bio Chemistry”
2. Ramakrishnan, “T.B. of Bio Chemistry”

Anatomy & Physiology
1. Seers W. Gordon – Anatomy, Physiology for Nurses Edward Amold (Publishers
Ltd).
2. Best & Taylor: The Living Bodies, Asis Publishing House, Bombay.

Pharmacology & Toxicology
1. Derasari & Brahmankar – Elements of Pharmacology.
2. B.C. Bose – T.B. of Pharmacology Scientific Book Agency, Calcutta.

3. Pharmacology & Pharmacothrspeutics Vols. I & I Santhoskar & Baudarkar.
4. Dr. Dandiya T.B. of Pharmacology.

Drug Store and Business Managements
1. Remington Pharmaceutical Sciences Mock Publishers Co.
2. M.L. Schroff Professor of Pharmacy, Part – II Five Star Enterpraises, Calcutta.
3. Cooper & Gunn’s, Tutorial Pharmacy, The Kothari Book Depot, Bombay.

