VISION
To impart high quality education and technical expertise to the students and inculcate in them humanistic attitude, scientific temper, sense of commitment to the profession and spirit of participation in nation building.

MISSION
Provide quality education and knowledge base to the students in structural engineering.
Prepare the students as nationally competitive and trend setters for the future generation in the realm of technical education.
Assimilate the available theories, explore new frontiers, to propound new theories which will result in improving the quality of the life of the student community.
Develop personality of the students in a healthy way and to provide opportunity to acquire knowledge in state-of-the-art research.
Provide service to the university, engineering profession, and the public through consultancy services.
ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT
       The Department of Civil and Structural Engineering was started in 1978 with the objective of providing well - trained technical manpower to the society. The Department offers on-campus under-graduate programme in Civil & Structural Engineering, post-graduate programmes in Structural Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Construction Engineering & Management and Ph.D. programme in Civil and Structural Engineering. The programmes and training offered to the students are tuned to make them fit for a professional job, a research assignment, self-employment and serve the society by their contributions. The curricular programmes are continuously updated to meet the demands from industry. New value added courses are introduced periodically.
     The department has nine well-organized laboratories to carry out Ph.D. research and to operate R & D projects by the faculty members and students as well. The laboratories are also being used by the post-graduate students and research scholars from other educational institutions for their research studies. The department has experienced and qualified faculty members.
      The department has undertaken many research projects supported by the All India Council For Technical Education (AICTE), the University Grants Commission (UGC), the Tamil Nadu State Council For Science and Technology (TNSCST), the Institution of Engineers (India) and the Ministry of Environment and Forestry.
     The department has an all-time internet facility for use by both staff and students. Computer based learning materials are also made available to staff and students for furtherance of their learning.
     National Conferences, Short-term Courses and Invited Lectures are organized by the department periodically for the benefit of the faculty members and students.
     Learning experiences such as industrial visits, vocational training, participation in national level students seminar at other institutions, organizing national level students seminar at the University are provided to the students apart from classroom teaching. As academic routine, provision is made to train the students in design, detailing. drafting, estimation, valuation and construction, Necessary practical training is imparted in computer aided analysis and design. The performance of students is evaluated through term tests and terminal exams. Many scholarships and endowment prizes are also available for deserving students. The students also have a grievance redressal cell for getting their problems addressed appropriately.
    The department undertakes testing and consultancy services to different organizations and individuals engaged in construction activities. The broad areas of the consultancy services include design and detailing of structures, condition assessment of structures, expert advice on rehabilitation of structures, field testing of soil & structures and laboratory testing of various materials and structural elements. The department undertakes industrial consultancy projects also. Testing of air springs for use in high speed trains (TVS Air Springs, Madurai) and Mix design for geopolymer concrete for use in road construction (NTPC, Noida, U.P.) are underway.
      Linkages with organizations such as Structural Engineering Research Center (SERC), Chennai and Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC), Neyveli have been made to open up new avenues for research and consultancy activities.
Civil & Structural Engineering
B.E. Civil & Structural Engineering (Full-time)	UG
M.E. Structural Engineering (Full-time)	PG
M.E. Construction Engineering & Management (Full-time)	PG
Ph.D. Civil & Structural Engineering	Research